All business concentrated in one section. Low green. Level - high Restricted - very high class residential - exceptionally good schools - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection. Middle class, junior executive, skilled mechanics
All business centered in one section. Medium Green. Level-high Highly restricted-very high class residential - exceptionally good schools - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection Professional & Executives
Wooded section - all business centered outside area. Medium Green. Level - high Highly restricted - very high class residential - Exceptionally good schools - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection. Professional & Executives
Financing done primarily through insurance companies. High green. Rolling to hilly Wooded section of acre tracts - Oakwood schools - restricted - very high class residential - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection. Professional & executives
Mortgage financing by insurance companies and locally. Medium Green. Hilly Highly restricted - good schools - good transportation - wooded section. Junior executive & professional
Best green Hilly Large estates - best section around Dayton Professionals & Executives
The most exclusive residential section in Dayton (not including Oakwood) High Green. Rolling Highly restricted - partly wooded - high class residential good schools - playground - library - good transportation - city fire and police protection. Executives & professional
Outside city limits - township fire protection - no police protection no vandalism - Medium blue. High - level Desirable residential section - restricted - good schools. Skilled mechanics
In the extreme N.W. corner there is a spotty section of houses needed only minor repair. Medium Blue. High - rolling Homogeneous residential area of modest homes. Jr. Executives - Middle Class
Medium Blue High - rolling Wooded tract fronting on river Jr. Executives - Middle Class
Southern portion outside city - no police protection township fire protection. High-level Restricted - good residential section - good schools and transportation. Middle Class
Portion of section has only township fire protection - no police protection. Medium blue. High - rolling Fairly good residential section - we'll restricted Middle Class
Natural scenic residential area. Medium Blue. High level Highly restricted desirable residential section - close to N.C.R Plant - good transportation Jr. executives & upper class
An older residential section retaining good character and desirable inhabitants. Medium blue. Rolling - high Desirable residential section - we'll restricted Skilled mechanics, Jr. Executives and Railroad men
A very pale blue in desirability High level Fairly desirable Some jerry-built houses Mechanics - clerks
Property is fairly good at present, but it is reasonable to assume that the section has reached its peak and could almost be classed as yellow. There is still considerable value and some desirability for property located here. High, Level Fair residential Mixture of types of houses Clerks - Mechanics Italian-Jewish No Italian, Jewish
High Blue Rolling - high Well laid out section of desirably larger houses. Executives & Professional men
High Blue Rolling Continues as well restricted residential section Executive - Professional Men
Good transportation Very few "Jerry built houses" High Yellow. High - level Good transportation; good schools; playgrounds; restricted to frame or better singles and double houses; all street improvements; churches. Better Class laborers - Clerks
Medium yellow. Low Near business section and center of city, good schools, good transportation. Laborers - Mechanics
Foreign born Jewish centering in this area. Low yellow. Level Good transportation; good schools and playgrounds; all streets improvements. Business men-Jr. Executives Russian Jewish German-Polish No Foreign-Jewish
Section known as Westwood adjacent to Inland Manufacturing Company plant, a General Motors Corporation subsidiary. Medium yellow. High, level Good transportation; good schools; good playgrounds; newer section of medium priced houses with similar type houses; reasonable residential restrictions. Necessary to travel through colored section to get to it. Mechanics, laborers, clerks
Section known as Whittier Terrace adjacent to Delco Brake Corp. a subsidiary of General Motors Corporation. Low yellow. Level-low Close by industrial plants; good transportation and schools; newer type houses similar in type; highly restricted against colored. Surrounded by colored section. Mechanics, better class of laborer
Low yellow. High-rolling Good schools, wooded section, newer houses. Not very highly restricted; no improved streets; not very good transportation; some "jerry built houses". Laborers and mechanics
Low Yellow High - Level. Good schools Outside city limits; poor transportation; no street improvements. Laborer
Some "jerry built houses". Medium Yellow. Level - high Good transportation; good schools; churches; playgrounds; good fire protection Better class laborers - Clerks
Has good transportation and convenient to Master Electric Co. Trupar Mfg. Company and smaller plants. Low Yellow. Level Good transportation; playgrounds; schools; churches; near to industrial plants Better class laborers - Clerks
Medium yellow. Southern part - high - Northern part - Low Transportation and schools good; all street improvement Properties old. Better class laborers-clerks No undesirables
Old type houses. Low yellow. Level Transportation and schools good; churches; all street improvements. Better class laborer-Clerks Small percentage Better class Better type of foreign
Low yellow Level-high Good transportation; good schools; all street improvements All old property. No restrictions. Laborers mostly Italian No Italian
Medium Yellow High-level Wooded suburban section with fair transportation; good schools; churches; uniform type of home. Mechanics-Clerks-Better class laborer
Medium Yellow High level Good schools; restricted (not highly); sewers & water Transportation poor, no gas. Better class laborer-clerks
Low yellow. Level Good playgrounds; transportation; schools. Laborers-Mechanics Polish-Hungarian No Foreign
At present time area is spotted with shacks; houses are built on the rear of lots. As general conditions improve it is expected that there will be an increase in the cheaper type of home. Low Red. High - Level Poor transportation, outside city limits, unrestricted unimproved. Laborers Lower class
Low Red. Level Good transportation and schools. Mixture of low class foreigners - Polish, Russian, Hungarian and negro. Old houses in bad repair. Laborers Hungarian, Slavs, Polish, Russian Lower class foreigners
Low Red. Level Good schools and transportation Mixture negro and poor white. Laborers Negro
Larger older type houses being converted into income properties by converting into small apartments and rooming houses. Medium red. Low Good transportation; adjoins center of city. Zoned for business; old houses. Clerks - laborers Greeks Business
Low Red. Low- Level Good transportation and schools. Old houses being converted into cheap rooming house section Clerks-laborers Italian Hungarian Foreigners
Low Red High-Level None except good schools No plat restrictions, poor construction, poor transportation Laborers Negroes
Low Red High-rolling Entire area consists of shacks on rear of lots; no street improvements; no plat restrictions; inhabited by low class of white people; poor transportation. Laborers Lower class of white
Indications are that entire section will become industrial area. Low red. High-Rolling Close to railroad tracks and industrial plants, bad odors, noisy. Laborer
Trend towards industrial - Low red. Low Good transportation - Good schools Stockyards - packing houses and fertilizer plants adjacent to area. Laborer Hungarian/Polish Negro
Along highway approaching Wright Field, U.S. Army Post. Low Red. Low Good schools Poor transportation; low class white; poorly constructed buildings Laborers Hungarian-Polish Foreign born
Entire area built up with poorly constructed buildings and shacks. Very poor class of white people intermingling with negro. Low Red. Low Good schools. Poor transportation; plant unrestricted; no improvements. Lowest type laborer Polish-Hungarian 30% Negro
Low Red. Low Good schools, good transportation Bad odors from industrial plants; old section. Laborers Polish-Hungarian Foreign born
Some of the larger older type houses are being made into two and three family apartments. Also becoming a rooming house area. Medium Red. Low Adjacent to center of city; good transportation; good schools. Very low; one of oldest sections of city. Clerks-mechanics
Close to city; trend towards room houses and apartments. Low Red. Level Good transportation - good schools Older section of city, negroes moving in. Clerks - Laborers Slavs Negro
construction of new homes somewhat deterred by reason of high cost of materials. Rents remained constant. level high restrictions; new development; best residential location lack of transportation high type executive desirable
clean neighborhood; pride of ownership is evident level good transportation; near shopping center; near public school nominal business and white-collared class desirable
several new houses being erected in west end. This is a desirable neighborhood. level good transportation; schools; near shopping district adjoins a marsh on Pennsylvania Railroad business and white collared class desirable
 level good transportation; near to churches; fine shade trees Near hospital. Heavy traffic along North Street. clerks and white collared 80%; skilled labor 20% desirable
pride of ownership is evident level good transportation; near to shopping center; high school and public school Hospital in area; possibility of business coming up Market Street business and white collared class desirable
The rental market in this area remained constant from 1929 through. level good class of occupants; adjacent to public park; near good public school nominal executive and business desirable
There are seven homes in this area. Assessment average $450.00 per single lot. New construction deterred partly because of high assessments. level good roads; clean neighborhood; all utilities are in restricted area Limited transportation; high assessment business executives desirable
This section is restricted to residences. Clean neighborhood - fine trees. level near golf course bus transportation only high type business men desirable
Fairly nice neighborhood beyond city limits; for laboring class with nominal income level no transportation; adjoining State Hospital laboring mixed no same type
Good location for shop owners and railroad men. level Good transportation - near high school and grade school nominal white collar and factory workers mixed same type
Considered a fair residential section for this type of people. level Within walking distance to manufacturing plants; good transportation; good schools railroad traverses this section white collar 50% and factory workers 50% mixed no same type
This is a small area and fairly well kept. Somewhat insulated from other residential areas. level Near city limits; away from dirt and smoke Railroad on west side of area. laboring desirable
Good location for factory workers level near industrial center no sewer factory workers same type
Not far from city limits. City water will be available shortly. Few good homes here. May show more activity later because of proximity to city line. level near grade school adjacent to railroad; smoke and dirt laboring class no desirable
Good neighborhood for railroad and shop workers level good transportation; good streets near railroad; smoke and dirt white collared 25%; laboring 75% mixed same type
Clean neighborhood. Pride of ownership is evident. level Good trees; city improvements; adjoins best residential district nominal business and white collared no desirable
In line with "better homes" growth in Lima. Few very nice homes located here. Level winding roads; good trees, etc. Poor transportation. Tuberculosis hospital abounds on the eastern line of this section. business executive 10%; white collar 30%; labor 60 desirable
This area is north of a cemetery and west of a city park level Good transportation Near cemetery - near colored district laboring no desirable
 level Good transportation; good streets Southwestern part of area is affected by fumes from refinery. Western section is adversely affected by abandoned quarry. Parts of area subject to floods from river. white collar 20%; laboring 80% mixed undesirable
Hospital grounds are highly improved. Good location for shopmen. Three very active industries located here: Superior Body; Artcraft Sign Co.; Davison Enamel Co. level Good transportation; near schools. Lincoln Park is located here. Hospital is located here. Railroad traverses part of area. white collar and factory workers mixed same type
This are is very sparsely built. Close proximity to Lost Creek Country Club and Lost Creek Addition. Will probably move slowly. level Good transportation Streets are not laid out. white collar and factory workers mixed same type
This section near town; B & O Shops; Buckeye Reliner (Inner tubes); Gro-Cord (soles and heels compositions); Buckeye Machine Co. (Diesel Engines). Good neighborhood for factory and railroad workers. level with small lake and creek (river) at South end. Few trees. Railroad traverses area. Utilities incomplete. North of Railroad. Railroad men, shopmen and laborers. Italians, Polish
Section was used formerly as a dump along the river. This sent trend downward but dump has been cleared up and stadium now built over it. A better class of people than in D-4. Area is close to center of city and a lot of remodeling and improvements. level - few trees All utilities; new high school stadium; Lincoln Park; Grade School in area; Churches; Stores Old section; properties allowed to depreciate seriously. common laborers Italians, Poles
This originally was a section on the fringe of the city. As the town grew, better types of home construction developed around this area. The colored owners are able to meet assessments for paving, sewers, water mains, etc. They have their own church here and are determined to remain in this area. Located between green, blue and yellow area. level negro population mostly. white - laboring; colored - laboring
Laid out in 25 foot lots and people built little shanties; this type persisted. level - treeless nothing Next to cemetery; all 25 ft. lots; cheap, shoddy construction; Utilities only on Spencerville Road. Common laborers
A good section for those who work in factories. flat - treeless Near Lima Locomotive Works; Standard Oil Company; Woolen Mills. Park in area - Hoover Park. Grade school in area. Business center at Main and Vine street, also at Vine and Metcalf. Gas, water, electricity, sewer. Smoke from Lake Erie, Nickel Plat Railroad Shops and Standard Oil Refinery Factory workers; Railroad workers no Czechs; Poles
Area will eventually build up because of its desirability as a home for those employed in nearby factories. Flat; treeless; sparsely settled Proximity to Locomotive Works, Ohio Steel Foundry and Westinghouse Company. Near School, stores, churches. General cheap construction of homes laborers Italians Colored
The section south of street car line is a newer allotment. Three fine homes under construction. Boulevard system streets. Highly desirable. Few old homes interspersed keep this area from being classified green. Level Highly restricted; new development; best residential area. Adjoins fine bathing beach. Main highway traverses through area. Business & professional No desirable
Highly desirable location. Restricted. Practically all new properties, shrubbery and landscaping. Pride of ownership. Level Adjoins beach, surrounds public park, good transportation. Best bathing beach along Lake Erie. business & professional desirable
No lots for sale except at resale. If gas were in, sales demand would be far better. Much better than in 1929. Level - surrounding Central Park Park in area. Restrictions as to building. Water, electricity, sewer, adjacent to H.S. Stadium No gas, no schools, no stores in area. Small business, Few professional No gas, no schools, no stores in area.
Desirable location. Platted just before depression set in. Now coming back slowly. Level Close to lake front. Nominal white collared & machinist desirable
Lots in extreme eastern section from Iowa to Louisiana Avenues were formerly owned by U.S. Government. Practically all new homes are located in this section. Level Good transportation. Near school. Near ship yards on west end. Noise, dirt and some smoke. Laboring Mixture Mixed
Few nice homes in northern part. Newer homes in southern part of area. Level Good transportation; near school. nominal white collared & laboring desirable
Old residential neighborhood. Pride of ownership is evident. Level Adjoins Washington Park. Near shopping center. High school is located near. nominal older business people desirable
Old residential neighborhood. Some nice homes along 9th and 10th Streets. Level Good transportation; near shopping center. Library. Park. Dirt and smoke from railroad in southern section of area. white collared and laboring
Some vacant along southern part of section, fairly hood residential neighborhood. Level Good transportation; paved streets, public school. North of High School Stadium. Dirt and smoke from railroad. Mostly laboring Italians undesirable
Fairly nice residential neighborhood. Level Near shopping center; good transportation, public schools. Some smoke and dirt from Stove Works and Railroad. Laboring mixture Mixed
Vacant lots along city limits, fairly nice residential neighborhood. Level Adjoins Central Park and swimming pool. Good transportation. Nominal Skilled mechanics Mixed mixed
Some expensive homes built here about 35 years ago by the then leading citizens of Lorain. Nice neighborhood for laboring people. Level Adjoins Oakwood Park; good transportation, wide streets and lawns. Restrictions on buildings. Some some and dirt from steel plant. Laboring class mixed No mixed
Very old neighborhood Sloping slightly toward Lake Erie Near shopping district Smoke from Industrial Section to the north Factory workers Very few No -
a comparatively new addition. Fairly good section for laboring class. Level Good transportation- not far from beach. Adjoins Railroad on North. White collared & laboring few No -
Comparatively new addition. Level - - white collared to laboring desirable
 Same as #D5 with exceptions noted below Slav & Russian
Negro concentration vicinity 31st and Fulton. Area popular with steel plant employees in low wage brackets. Flat Large shade trees- All utilities in- large lots- wide streets, good set back Smoke and noise of steel plant Factory workers Hungarian
Nice homes along East 31st Street. Located in South-east end of city limits. Poor homes along Norfolk; Camden and Tacoma Streets. Level Good transportation; near Oakwood Park. Laboring mixed No mixed
Paving assessments were high because of unnecessary expense of layout. In some cases the amount of special assessments exceed the price of the lot. Level - few trees in eastern end but beautiful trees in western section. Attractive planning - adjacent Country Club - best school in city. Transportation (every 30 minutes) by bus. No stores convenient, no churches nearby. Merchants, Type Professional, Manufacturers
This area is on the so-called "west side" not easy of access and has been slow in developing for that reason. Level and high Well planned. Scenic features good. Overlooking Packard Park. Churches, stores, schools, not conveniently near. Business & professional
This is the very best blue section Level School nearby in A-1 area. Transportation through area. Shade trees plentiful. Business & professional
Lots in this area are of good size. East Junior High School and Warren City Hospital in this area. Level Grade school in area - churches - transportation through the area - bus line. Zoning restrictions. Some mill employees; Clerical - professional Mixed
In 1929 this section was not so well developed as it is now. Also opening of Genessee Blvd. from E. Market to Elm Road and of Woodland Avenue to the Country Club has improved value in the area. The expensive houses in this area are generally along Fairmont & Bonnie Brae. Genessee. Level High school in area. Grade school across street from the area in C-7 (Elm Road School) Fair grounds in center of area between Atlantic and Woodland Avenue. Clerks - mill employees
Best section of area is at extreme west - Perkins Drive deserving Grade A but too small to be a separate area. Level Close to city, fine shade trees, Central Jr. High School in area, churches, nearby shopping centers. Near the High School. Park adjacent to Perkins Circle. Business & executive
about 6 very expensive homes along Mahoning at south end of area Level with shade trees Adjacent to Packard Park. Roosevelt School in area. Possible influx of lower grade population from C-6 office employees; small business men Possible future
Slavish Catholic Church just out of the area at the northwest which may have tendency to concentrate Slavish into C-2 and thence into B-7 Level A good residential neighborhood, close to the business center. Community spirit evident. Double drive up Iddings. Known as Iddings Park. Business & mill officials
Sunlight new plant (G.M.) will be built just north of this area. Level Schools nearby in C-2 and C-7. Churches conveniently near in C-2. Walking distance of shopping center. Shade trees. Proximity to R.R. and industry on north. Industrial wage group Mixed No Italian
Some large houses used as rooming houses along Porter & High Streets. Many owners moved out and rented their houses - holding them for a rise because of business encroaching. Central Jr. High School in area, also St. Mary's Catholic School, Elm Road School. Level with slight rise eastward on Market Street. Slight depression of land along the railroad between Chestnut and Linden. Near shopping districts, and within walking distance of Republic Mill. Grade School in area. Churches in area. Encroaching business and industry. Mill workers Mixed Few on South Street
Southeastern part of area older - poorly planned except North Todd which is good. Garden Street along R.R. has houses 50 years old poor to fair condition. New street in - not shown on map about 30 houses on this street. Level - higher than business district and the Mahoning Avenue side of the river Some restrictions. Bus transport is regular (30 minute intervals) No schools, no stores, no churches. Necessary to cross railroad to go into area. Workers Scattering Hungarian
East of York Street nearly all American inhabitants Slopes slightly north from Railroad, otherwise level and high from east to west. 5 Churches - 2 schools, nearby stores along W. Market, Parkman and Mason Streets. Transportation by bus along both north and south boundaries. Concentration of negroes and foreign at western extremity on Nevada, Oregon and McNyler Streets. Commercial encroachment along W. Market and Summit Streets. Clerks, business, factory workers Greek and Hungarian Greek, Negro, Hungarian
About 200 bungalows west of Austin. Todd Avenue out of city limits (south) good prospects for favorable development. Generally level with very slight slope toward river. West side Jr. High School Palmyra & Austin, 3 churches. Neighborhood stores along Market, Highland Avenues. Quinby Park. Southeastern portion of the area characterized by foreign and negro. Factory workers, merchants and business men Polish, Italian and Hungarian Mixed foreign
Good transportation, close to factories, school and churches also Fire Station in area. Level Roosevelt School, 1 grade. Not far to factories. General Motors Plant, Ohio Lamp Factory, etc. Laborers - factory workers Various -
Foreigners likely to invade this area. Home Saving & Loan Companies of Youngstown, also Trumbull had about 50 foreclosures in this area which were offered for sale in October 1936. All closed out now. Prices Average 3500, the amount of the mortgage. Level Schools in area. Close to High School in B4 area. Adjacent to factories (for those who work in factories) Adjacent to Railroad and factories. Factory workers & wage earners
Section is "killed" by influx of negroes from D-3 to attend Francis Willard School in C-8 Level Factories near northwest section of this area. Restrictions - zoning residential. School, some churches. Stores adjacent on Niles Road & Youngstown Road. Mill workers Mixed
Rent decline due to improvidence of occupants. All work in Republic Steel, about 3 blocks away from the area. Flat - lowest built up section of city. Close to mill. Business center available. Schools near, within walking distance of shopping center. Concentration of disorderly houses along Fulton Street. Heavy paving assessment on Fulton Street. So. Park Ave Walnut street. Low grade population. Laborers Mixed
Not quite as good as D-1, 20% lower rentals, 50% lower sales values. City dump adjacent to this property on west. Dump between Hayden and Steele Sts. Flat Near Republic Steel Mill. Neighborhood stores. Old property - Overflow at times of high water no schools. General
Section was built around old Western Reserve Steel Mill. This mill is gone now. This section probably worst in the city. Flat but high enough to be secure from floods Air Reduction Sales Company. Chicago Car Roofing Co. One Steel Mill also in area. School but no churches. Bus transportation. B&O Railroad & Earie R.R. pass through area. Some streets unimproved Factory workers Mixed
Warren City Tank & Boiler Company has offices south central section of this area. Loan commitments about 20% of appraisals here. Area has slight tendency to increase of colored population. Level Proximity to Packard. Sunlight Warren City Tank & Boiler Co. Grinnell Company, Youngstown Pressed Steel etc. Very bad planning and poorly built homes Low grade factory workers
level and gently rolling New school in area - adequate transportation - all city conveniences - close to community business center None, except Belt Line Railroad track on west. Executives, business and professional men. - ne Dick, Marcia, and Emerson are best streets. Area as a whole one of the new subdivisions - of uniform construction with much new building activity recently
Rolling to hilly Not far distant to principal business section. Good area of large, beautiful homes of wealthier citizens. Has all city conveniences. No transportation, but type of occupants do not consider this a detrimental influence Capitalists, business and professional men. - This is an area occupied exclusively by wealthier citizens and those with the higher incomes, containing beautiful homes in well kept grounds. Proximity to schools, churches, and business center not a consideration as area is only about 10 minutes, by automobile, from center of city. Northeastern side of area stops on hill top and "C" area joining is at foot of the hill, one of reasons for jump in grade.
level and gently rolling Adequate transportation - school in area - close to community business center. Railroad track on west and small industrial plant in north-west corner, but neither has shown as a detrimental influence. Skilled mechanics, clerical, business and professional men. - Main Street contains better large two-story homes. Progress, Ridgelawn, and Sherman contain better bungalows and some larger homes. Area as a whole contains well kept places indicating pride of ownership, but construction is varied.
Level and gently rolling. Adequate transportation - all city conveniences - close to community business center. Railroad through eastern part. Clerical, business, and professional men. - Millville, Harrison, and Millikin best for smaller properties. Franklin and Ross best for larger properties.
Rolling easy access to principal business section. All city conveniences. Close to schools and business center. Railroad track in northern part, but apparently does not seriously affect. Properties somewhat old as a whole, but extremely well maintained. Capitalists, business and professional men. - This is a small area of large well kept homes, occupied by some of the wealthier citizens, and while it is not a recent development type of property and citizenship such as to keep it desirable for many years.
Level. Adequate transportation - schools, churches, and community business center in area. All city conveniences except extreme southern end. Southern end lacks city sewerage and water. Clerical, business, and professional; skilled mechanics. - Pleasant Avenue south of Laurel contains most of the larger higher prices houses. Extreme western side (west of Freeman) not as good as remainder of area - northern part is older part. Most recent new building has been east of Pleasant Avenue of Tiffen, Chase, and Corwin, and Brough. Extreme southern part will increase in desirability when utilities are added.
Level Area adjoins new school and has community business center in it. Adequate transportation. Area lacking in public utilities in some parts. Two railroad tracks running through it. Jerry built section west of Lawson and north of Railroad. Abandoned factory at junction of railroad tracks turned into warehouse. Clerical, mechanics, laborers in Champion Paper Company. - Part of area south of railroad and east of Lawson Street is best. West of Lawson and north of railroad contains mostly Jerry built houses, not well maintained. Recent construction of school just north of area had helped.
Level Adequate transportation; school and churches in area, also community business center. Industrial plants on east. Clerical, mechanics, laborers. - An area of fairly uniform small cottage and bungalow type houses - somewhat old, and about an average of this neighborhood type.
Level. Adequate transportation; all city conveniences; churches and stores in area; close to school. Industrial plants in area; railroad through east side. Factory workers, laborers, and clerical. - Western part of area west of Pleasant Avenue and east of Pleasant Avenue south of Symmes Avenue is better part of area. East of railroad not so good.
Level Adequate transportation - no schools or churches or stores in area but not too far distant. Lack of public utilities and city sewerage. Clerical and mechanics - A small area of fairly uniform homes surrounded on three sides by higher priced developments.
Level to rolling. All city conveniences in part of area - adequate transportation - not far from business center - close to school. Railroad track and creek through northern part - large paper mill joins - southern part very old. Up to "C" Street in Conservancy Tax District. Clerical, business men and laborers working for Champion Paper Company. Champion Paper Company owns quite a bit of property in northern part of area. Larger old houses located on Park, North C, and North D. Brick apartments at Park and North B. Park, North C, and North D better streets.
Level to rolling. School in area - close to business section -adequate transportation. All but southwestern part has all public utilities. Part from river to South "C" Street in Conservancy Tax District. Railroad track through area. Packing Plant in eastern part. Coal yard in area. Clerical, business mechanics, and laborers. - Lower grade slightly on South "B" Street. part of area nearest to river is worst part, houses obsolete, poorly maintained, and occupied by lower grade of population. Ross and Franklin west of "C" Street are good with 2-story well kept places as a rule. Recent new construction has been on Coralie and Bessie Streets south of Railroad Track, but this part of area does not have all utilities. South part of area runs into a hillside on the top of which is Water Works Road and this is one reason for the jump in grade.
Level All city conveniences - adequate transportation. About 7 blocks from schools, churches, and business center. Surrounded by industrial plants. In Conservancy Tax District. Laborers, shop mechanics - A small area of obsolete houses, with the river on one side and industrial plants on the other sides. Plants, however, have a tendency to keep rental demand good.
Level All city conveniences - proximity to principal business district. In Conservancy Tax District; railroad track on east, and industrial plants on north. Old homes. Skilled mechanics, clerical, business and professional men. - Along 4th Street from Vine to Heaton is located some dilapidated properties. Remainder of area typical of old section joining principal business district.
Level Fairly uniform type of improvement. Transportation to southwest corner of area only. All city conveniences. Cemetery Association own property on west. Distance to schools, churches, and business center. Employees of Ford Motor Company; skilled mechanics, clerical. Major portion of undeveloped land in this area owned by one of the banks in the city and they are now pushing its development. Possibility of upward trend in desirability good - major detrimental influence is distance to schools, churches, and business center.
Level All city conveniences. Schools, churches, and community business center is in area. Adequate transportation. Close to principal business section. Western part in Conservancy Tax District. Industrial area and railroad tracks on west and railroad track through eastern part and on south. Cemetery joins on north. Executives, business, and professional laborers, factory workers, and clerical. Lower grade, very slowly on western side joining industrial plants. Along Dayton Street from 6th to 9th are large expensive old homes on large lots, but on the downward grade since 1913 flood. Campbell Avenue from 7th to Railroad has well kept properties. Northern part of area more recently developed contains small fairly well maintained properties on the average. Southeastern part also contains small well maintained homes on the average. Part of area joining industrial section on west is worst part.
Level All city conveniences, schools, churches, and business center in area. Old properties; railroad tracks through area; mixture of population. Major portion in Conservancy Tax District. Clerical, laborers, industrial workers. A fairly uniform area of older houses, one and two story; close to principal business district.
Level Adequate transportation; schools, churches, and community business center; all city conveniences. Industrial plants join at southwest corner. Clerical, mechanics in safe plants, and laborers. - Edison Avenue and Hensley Avenue and Shuler Avenue and Harmon Avenue, the latter two between Edison and Hensley are the best streets - cheaper part of area is toward eastern side.
Level. All city conveniences - close to principal business section; churches and stores in area; not far distant to school. Type of population; in Conservancy Tax District; restricted district in area. Laborers - An old section on bank of river occupied by a low grade of Negro population as a whole.
Level. All city conveniences; joining principal business district; schools and churches in area. Railroad tracks through area; old properties; some cheaper stores; cheap rooming houses; some cheap saloons in area; many of houses lack bathrooms. In Conservancy Tax District. Clerical, cheap mechanics and laborers. An old section joining main business section, containing many cheap rooming houses, mixed population and mixed type of house.
Level All city conveniences; adequate transportation; schools, churches, and stores in area. Mixed type of population; age of properties; western part in Conservancy Tax District. Cheap laborers, and mechanics. - Area of small, old houses on narrow lots with badly mixed type of population.
Level Adequate transportation; all city conveniences; school at east end of area; churches and stores in area. Industrial plants on west and east; older properties not well maintained; small lots. Cheap mechanics and laborers. An old area of small cottage type houses built on narrow lots without modern conveniences and not well maintained.
Level Adequate transportation - close to business center. Lacking in utilities - lower type of population - industrial plants on west - Jerry built houses. Factory workers and cheap laborers. - An area of very cheaply constructed houses occupied by a lower grade type of factory laborer.
Hilly Good transportation-bus-park to north in Blue area, restricted. School 3 blocks away. Churches 6 blocks Cath. school bus. Wonderful view all directions. Above all possible floods. No sidewalks on Noel Drive business, executive and professional One of the most desirable spots in city for mortgage loans
Level to rolling; low and surrounded by hills. Highly restricted; streets; not far from schools; well developed. No sidewalks; away from shopping district. Executives and Professionals Pride of ownership is highly evident. Is second best residential section in city. Will very likely improve with years.
On top of a pronounced rise and probably the best scenic neighborhood in Portsmouth. Slopes downward in all directions from center. Highly restricted; streets; near schools and churches. Executives and Professional. The only large estates in Portsmouth are located in this area. Elite community.
Rolling Schools and churches - streets - transportation - Free from flood hazard. No restrictions. Business, professional, and skilled labor A good "B" area; free from flood dangers. Surround an "A" area in northern section. Clean residential community.
Level to rolling North of Micklethwaithe Road. Streets - transportation - schools - churches - free from noise, smoke, industry and flood hazards. Restricted. Nominal executives, business and professional white-collared Activity and development in the area is concentrated in the extreme northern part. Some higher priced homes along North End of Franklin Avenue and on Grandview between 21st and 22nd, but somewhat intermingled with cheaper type homes.
Rolling - slopes from Brown Avenue meet upward. Transportation - streets - convenient to downtown location - churches and schools. Not entirely free from flood dangers. Surrounded by older properties. business, executive, merchants, white collared A small section of better type homes. Clean neighborhood; will probably decline gradually due to being surrounded by lower grade properties; no possibility of appreciation in value. Oldest "B" section in Portsmouth.
Rolling Transportation - streets - adjoins better grade area. Adjacent to slaughter house junk yard, coal yards and railroad. Heavy automobile traffic. small business and factory workers Hospital located in area. Slaughter house located in the south section of area. Miscellaneous small business scattered along Scioto Trail. Area will probably hold its own for next ten years.
Ascending north from Robinson Avenue Near schools and churches - streets - adjoining public park on north. Railroad adjoins area on south. Adjoins cemetery on north. Section of area lying south of Robinson Avenue was flooded in 1937 factory and railroad employees Somewhat cheaper homes along western boundary of area. Better and newer homes are located in northern part of area. Good neighborhood for factory, steel and railroad workers.
Level Streets - transportation - churches and schools - High School nearby - near downtown shopping center Encroachment of business - flood hazard business and trained workers Selby Show Factory employing 2400 workers is adjacent to this area on the south. One of the older sections of the city. Gradually being taken over by business. New Post Office is adjacent to the southwestern corner of the area.
Level to rolling Streets - transportation - schools - churches and business section. Southern part of area slopes toward Ohio River. Subject to flood hazard. business, professional, clerks and skilled workers - same Williams Shoe Factory employing 1100 persons (at Present) adjoins on the N.E. section of area. Pretty good old homes along northern section and some newer houses along southern section of area.
Hilly Streets - transportation to 17th Street. North only. Steep banks and bluffs. South part of area (below 17th street) was flooded in 1937. Railroad workers and laborers Many cheap and jerry built homes all through area. Transportation (bus line) runs only to 17th Street North.
Rolling - steep hills adjacent to area on the west. Good streets - near to steel plant as source of employment for residents of area. schools near south end - one school in area. Inferior planning. Poor transportation. Stream running through area - likely to overflow. Flood hazard in north-eastern part of area. Laborers No same About 90% of residents of this area are steel mill employees.
Rolling - Gullies and lowhills 2 Grade schools and one high school. Good Transportation No zoning restriction. Subject to flood hazard Workers and clerks No same Workers go to New Boston, about two miles distant. Transportation by bus - fare 10 cents. Best values in property are in northwest part of area. Business encroaching along Gallia Street in south of area.
Rolling Bus Transportation Mostly cinder streets; railroad runs through area. Steel and railroad workers Good school located along Webster Avenue. Fairly clean neighborhood for working class. Adjoins a hill on the North. Area was flooded west of Gallia Avenue in 1937
Level Transportation; schools. Near to downtown business section. Near factories Very old neighborhood. Subject to occasional floods; rail-road traverses through area. factory workers mixed fairly desirable A few fine old houses located here. Was a better neighborhood many years back. Now on down grade. Concentration of nice homes along 11th Street between Chillicothe and Washington.
Level Transportation; near schools and churches; near business section; near factories. Railroad traverses through area; colored population in northern part of area. laborers, factory workers Undesirable Not entirely free from flood hazard; Negro population, 25%; Area now on downgrade. Low percentage of home ownership.
 Same as D - I but no negro population Area heavily damaged by flood in 1937
Level Transportation; near schools and churches; near factories Same as D-1 but no negro population Area heavily damaged by flood in 1937.
Rolling Transportation - Streets. Swimming pool on Northwest corner of area Adjoins railroad and junk yard on south. Not free from flood hazard. factory workers and laborers - same A scattering of small diversified businesses along central part of area. Heavy vehicular traffic on Gallia Avenue.
Rolling Transportation; near schools Smoke nuisance from railroad and steel plant. Steep hills on North. steel workers and laborers mixed mixed Community of steel workers and railroad shop men. Will probably remain static for next few years. A few better type homes. Not free from flood hazard.
Rolling - All Jerry built homes - poor transportation - Unskilled laborers Mostly cheap houses. Not near to city or industry. Poorest section in city. No activity. Located in extreme N.E. section of Portsmouth.
Fairly level. Highly restricted; good streets - transportation. Close to schools. Executives and professional. Pride of ownership is highly evident. Free from industry encroachments. About the best "A" section in city.
Level to rolling Good transportation; well elevated; restricted neighborhood Executives; professional & skilled mechanics This section was platted first in 1914; it remained dormant until 1928 due to having been developed by outside interests. Now being promoted by responsible realtors. Most active area for new construction in Springfield. Some 30 new homes erected here last year. Sales activity is very good.
high elevation -level- All improvements in and paid for. Proximity of good residential district. Close to schools. RR to the N.E. Junior executives This section was developed prior to 1929. Former promoter now in receivership. Possibility of B & L Company will take over area and property will be placed with reliable ownership. Favorably located between A-1 and industrial districts. Property values will very likely increase in the near future.
level Adjoining beautiful park. Only "A" section in western part of city. Near schools. rock very near surface business and professional Desirable class "A" area. Laid out by attorneys and others not acquainted with development and underfinanced. Resulting in Receivership. Now owned by B & Loan Association. Will probably continue to be slow until active promotion takes place. Will probably show increase in values in the future. West end has.
Level Good improvements; well restricted; good transportation close to schools. business & professional well laid out; promoted soundly; uniform buildings; Pride of ownership highly evident; free from detrimental influences, will remain good.
Level Junior Executives and skilled laborers Adjoining the best old district of the city which is still highly desirable.
level - high elevation good streets; excellent schools; well restricted. Free from encroachments. Professional and Business Well laid out and improved; quickly developed; well promoted; it is the only "A" district in the South end of town. Free from encroachment.
Level to rolling; high elevation good streets; schools; transportation is excellent. Bears influence of Wittenberg College and borders on two "A" areas. nominal business and white collared Clean neighborhood; pride of ownership; near Wittenberg College and Ohio State Pythian Home; borders on "A" district and fairly close in
Description of Terrain. rolling to level; high elevation. Favorable Influences. good streets; uniform development; close in; transportation. nominal business and professional Ten years ago this was called "A" district. Has reached its peak and now values static to slightly downward. Pride of ownership is still evident. Free from encroachments and deterring influences.
Level College district; transportation; streets; close in. nominal Professional, business and skilled mechanics Good, old substantial community; pride of ownership is evident; Cultural influence of Wittenberg College and general college influence on the west one-half of Hio district from decline. Splendid transportation. Near business and downtown shopping district.
level transportation; streets; near school nominal tradesmen and mechanics Pride of ownership is manifested; close proximity of city park; good streets. Walking distance to good industry.
level streets; transportation; proximity to good industrial district; schools, shopping district. nominal business, professional & Jr. Executives & mechanics Safe from deterring influence. Pride of ownership is evident.
level streets; transportation; churches and schools. nominal Professional and business men Some very fine and high priced homes in north-west portion of area. Slightly cheaper homes in north-east section. Pride of ownership is highly evident. : the red area (D-6) adjoining this section is mostly comprised of Negro domestics who were employed by residents living to the west in B-6 and residents of High Street. Generally, the better type of colored people reside in D-6.
level transportation near RR and traction line foremen and skilled mechanics This is a fairly new residential section. Laid out good with extra large lots. Clean neighborhood. Sales activity is good.
level transportation; schools; walking distance to good industrial district. nominal Junior executives and skilled mechanics Largely developed about 12 years ago. Quickly built up; fair to poor construction; uniform type.
level. streets; transportation; school; uniform development nominal professional and business men From free encroachment of industry and deterring influence; uniform property; high degree of ownership, pride manifested.
rolling transportation; near schools and churches. dead end streets shop men fairly desirable Within walking distance to International Harvester Company; Springfield's largest employer. A good neighborhood for the working class.
level to rolling transportation unpaved street; area lies in extreme south-east end of city. white collared and shopmen - fairly desirable nominal Fairly good neighborhood for factory workers. Trend of desirability is slightly upward.
 transportation, near school Area lies on extreme south-west shopmen fairly desirable Outlying district. Laid out poorly; cheap construction. Activity is light.
level streets; transportation; schools and churches. adjoins colored section small business men and shopmen - fairly desirable Outlying section; properties are fairly well kept. Pride of ownership. Good neighborhood for storekeepers and shopmen. Several greenhouses located here.
level to rolling transportation. School Area lies in extreme south section of city. shopmen - fairly desirable This addition was poorly developed. New school was built in 1929. Since then the section showed marked improvement. Fairly good neighborhood for shopmen.
level transportation; near churches and schools. near RR yards; smoke, dirt and soot white collared and shop men fairly desirable Near International Harvester Co. very old neighborhood. Little or no demand. Many for sale. No buyers
level to slightly rolling transportation; paved streets; near Wittenberg College Adjoins Colored Area on South small business and shopmen fairly desirable Fairly good neighborhood for shop men. Little demand here. Trend is downward.
level transportation; streets; churches and schools. old, little demand white collared and skilled mechanics fairly desirable This is an old German settlement. A substantial neighborhood. Clean yards and pride of ownership is evident. Will probably continue to hold its own. High ratio of home ownership.
rolling transportation; near schools and churches. adjoins RR on North; abuts industry site. Clerks and factory workers A good section for factory workers and clerks, near industrial section. Walking distances to shops. Fairly clean cut community. Will probably improve slightly in desirability.
level streets; school Adjoins industry on North Skilled mechanics A newer section; developed since the World War. Clean neighborhood. Desirability will probably continue.
level to rolling transportation; streets; churches and schools. old and mixed properties white collared and mechanics and RR men mixed This is an old built up section with little or no changes in the past 30 years. Activity is slow. Some foreign born population and negroes reside in central portion of area. Trend is slightly downward. Near industry and down town section.
Level to rolling streets; transportation; schools and churches Old neighborhood small business and shop men 1/2 somewhat mixed Old built up section. Some good homes along High Street. Kept fairly clean. Sales activity is fair
level streets; transportation; schools and churches near colored section small business men and skilled mechanics - desirable Completely built up. Very good class of residents; high home ownership ratio. Property values remain static. American community. Near small shops.
level to rolling transportation near to industry on the South; near RR. Poor streets. shopmen fairly desirable Rather cheaply constructed properties and poorly developed. Very little demand. Trend seems to be downward.
sloping poor transportation; poor streets; very cheap construction. laborers undesirable This ranks with the poorest white residential sections in Springfield. All jerry-built homes. Cheap and very poorly constructed. Lending funds are not available. Inhabited by a lower class of whites.
level good transportation Adjoins Buck creek and industrial plants, smoke, dirt and noise. laborers & shopmen undesirable An older section of the city; influx of colored population. Little or no demand for homes. Old properties and in poor state of repair. Trend of desirability is downward. About the lowest red area in Springfield.
level good transportation abuts R.R. and shops. Smoke, dirt and noise. shopmen & laborers undesirable Heavily populated by colored people. Old section of city. Little demand. Trend is downward
level transportation and schools. colored common laborers, maids, servants, etc. undesirable This is an old colored area surrounded by a very good white residential section. Blue area around this section cuts off abruptly as shown in security map. The better type of colored people reside here.
level transportation; schools. Adjoins RR and industry laborers undesirable Population in this area is 50 colored. Trend is downward. Demand is only fair. Homes are only in fair state of repair.
level transportation; near schools. Colored population predominates. common labor undesirable Population in his area is 60% colored. Trend is downward; Demand is poor. Homes are only in fair repair.
Rolling - river valley. Trees, paved streets, all conveniences, scenic; high restrictions. Executives This is the finest and most expensive residential district. Very beautiful estates. The "cream" of better residential districts. Located in village of Ottawa Hills, west of Toledo city limits.
Rolling. Transportation; good streets; convenient to churches, schools, University and markets. Abutts cemetery on the west and Yellow area (C-18) on east and south sides. White collared and skilled mechanics A somewhat older but very fine, high type neighborhood. Pride of ownership is highly evident. Area was well planned and homes soundly constructed. Uniform and stable population. Within short distance to University of Toledo. Abutment to cemetery and lower grade area should not jeopardize desirability for several years.
Level to rolling. Transportation, near school and churches. Nominal Executives and businessmen Well laid out restricted residential district. Trend is upward. About 80 - 90 feet higher than down-town district. Cool and pleasant during summer months.
Sloping to river. Good streets, transportation, lies on river banks. Approach through Rossford, Ohio, a much lower cost area. Bordered by cheaper area. Executives & business men Located in Wood County. One of the older very high class exclusive residential community. Never fully developed. Now surrounded on two sides by laboring class district.
Rolling Close to schools, paved streets, high class residential. Fully restricted and zoned Class "A". Professional and executives The highest class residential district. Well restricted Pride of ownership is highly evident. Trend is upward. West of city limits.
Level Streets. All utilities. Very clean, high grade neighborhood. Executives, professional and business The second best residential neighborhood. Very fine and clean lots well landscaped. Trend is upward.
Level. Good streets, clean neighborhood, zoned Class "A" residential. Near schools and churches. Tradesmen and Professional It is the best class medium priced residential district. Well restricted. Trend is upward. Occupied by the younger element of professional and high salaried men.
Level. Good streets, transportation. Near schools and churches. Business and high salaried workers It is a good popular priced location. Clean neighborhood. Restrictions are somewhat lower than in Areas A-1 and 4. Should continue to show upward trend.
Level to rolling. Good streets, clean neighborhood. Zoned Class "A" residential, Church, school, transportation and trading center conveniently available. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Tradesmen, professional and junior executives Area lies north Jermain and Ottawa public parks. Ottawa park is beautifully wooded. Very high class residential section. Within walking distance to the new University of Toledo. Construction is sound and the area was well planned.
Level Good streets; near churches, schools and business center. Transportation. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Businessmen and high salaried workers Area lies south of Jermain Park. Popular priced location. Restricted somewhat less than areas A1 to 4, but very clean and pride of ownership is highly evident. Good, sound construction. Within short distance to beautiful Ottawa Park and new University of Toledo.
Rolling. Good streets, near churches and schools, adjoins beautiful. Borders on cemetery and railroad track. White collared and skilled mechanics Some duplexes along Greenway and Kensington Drive. Clean neighborhood. Upward trend.
Rolling. Good streets, trees, near schools and churches, good transportation. Adjoins park. Nominal Executives and professional Restricted to single residences. A little older but a very fine and high type neighborhood. Trend is upward. A few very expensive homes.
Level. Transportation, near schools and churches, streets. Nominal Industrial workers Beyond city limits. Good community. Eventually should be taken into city. Street paving program now in effect, should stabilize values in this section.
Level. Transportation, streets, school and churches. Surrounds Art Museum. Transcending from a good residential district to a lower income class, boarding and rooming houses. Clerks and business men One of the older areas. Slowly being transformed into commercial district along Detroit Avenue. Trend is downward.
Level. Streets, transportation, trees, near schools and churches. Bankers, lawyers, and business men Old aristocratic residential section changing to a good middle class of occupancy. Majority of houses are over-built for present day use. Trend is static.
Level. Streets, transportation, near schools. Adjoins "Yellow" area. Business and salaried workers Old residential district. Lower wage earning occupancy. All large old style over-built homes. Will probably decline in value due to hold style homes.
Level. Streets, trees, transportation, schools and churches. Near shopping center. Surrounded partly by "Yellow" area. Executives and professional and business men Surrounded by a much lower class of buildings. Main Street (Cherry Street) is zoned "Commercial". The area is fenced in. Was a high class residential section at one time but business and lower class building encroachments tend to pull it down.
Level. Streets, transportation, near schools, churches and community center. Adjoins park. Surrounded by "Yellow area. Factory workers Polish This area includes the new Polish district within the old Polish settlement. Most employees were formerly with Willys-Overload. Now working part time only or out of employment.
Level. Streets, transportation. Outlying Salaried and factory workers Recently annexed to city of Toledo. Finer homes along the Bayfront. Majority of homes are newly built and modern 6 room singles. Annexation should show increased activity.
Rolling. Near business district. Newer development. Cindered streets. Outlying Small business and professional. This is a newer development on the east side of the city. Slow in building. Improvements consists of well designed modern 6 room houses. Considered the best residential section in East Toledo.
Level. Macadam roads. Limited utilities - outlying district. Factory workers and white collared Laid out about 18-20 years ago for good residential area. Slow development on account of limited utilities and the encroachment of Refineries and proximity to railroads.
Level. Streets, transportation, near schools and churches, borders on Highland Park. Nominal Skilled mechanics and small business men A good moderate priced residential section built up with houses all about the same age. Will remain stabilized for a number of years.
Level. Transportation, near schools and churches. Cindered streets. Railroad men This is one of the newer popular priced editions with considerable appeal to Railroad men working in the Lack Shore Yards within a few block of this area. All homes new and modern. Should continue to improve.
Level. Streets, transportation, near schools and churches. Traversed by single railroad track. White collared and skilled workmen Somewhat cheaper homes along railroad track. Rather mixed district of bungalows and 1 1/2 story homes. Not far from industry. Should improve with employment situation.
Rolling. Cindered streets. Outlying section. Lack of utilities with exception of electricity. Business men Was not successfully developed on account of outlying location. Only eight homes in area.
Level. Transportation, near schools. Outlying Salaried workers, skilled mechanics. One of the promising popular priced editions that will show considered activity with the return of prosperity. Adjoins Heatherdowns Golf Course, and should be in demand.
Level. Streets, transportation, trees, near schools and churches. Nominal. Business and professional One of the better but somewhat older residential sections. Opposite Walbridge Park. Well laid out. Should continue to hold its own for some time to come.
Level. Streets, transportation. Near schools and churches. Close to business center. Adjoins park. Adjacent to cemetery on south and Sylvania Avenue which is zoned "commercial." Skilled mechanics, and small tradesmen One of the older well established and built up residential district and within walking distance of Toledo's largest industrial center.
Level Abutts high class Green (A-3) area. Good roads; convenient to churches, schools and markets. Bus transportation. Nominal Skilled mechanics and small tradesmen Area is fairly well built up except for north section. Good, clean and desirable location small tradesmen and mechanics. Somewhat lower restrictions but the demand should continue due to area being located next to the most expensive and most highly restricted residential community (Areas A-1, 2 & 3)
Rolling Cindered streets. Limited utilities. Skilled mechanics Outlying district adjacent to farmland. Poor demand. Will probably see low price values in new building construction.
Rolling to hilly. Adjoins golf course. Transportation. Unplatted surrounding areas. Small isolated plant. Limited utilities. Professional and industrial A few high priced homes on Overlook Boulevard. Much cheaper in south section of area. Trend is static. Too small an addition to attract much attention.
Level. Streets, utilities, near schools and churches. Adjoins cemetery on east and on the south by cemetery and cheaper area. On west by industrial. Skilled mechanics Located sufficiently close to park and Toledo University grounds to hold its own for several years. Activity is slow however.
Level. Good streets and transportation; convenient to churches, schools and community market. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Within very short distance to University of Toledo. Encroachment of industry and lower grade area (C-18) on the east. White collared and skilled workmen Located immediately south of Ottawa and Jermain Parks. Still fairly desirable. Better homes in the north and west section of area. Properties on east side suffer what due to presence of industry nearby.
Level. Streets, transportation, near schools and churches. Adjoins "Green" area on west. Borders on "Yellow" on south and east. Overlooks industrial center on the north. Factory workers and executives Attempt to make a high priced addition of this area was unsuccessful, Few high priced homes were built some 15 years ago. Poor appeal on account of industrial and lower priced area surrounding. Will probably see lower priced construction.
Level Trees, wooded section in parts of area. Cindered roads, outlying section. Sparsely built up. Poorly restricted. No utilities excepting electricity. Industrial workers Too far out and absence of utilities are a deterrent to sales activity. Mortgage lending is very limited. Unattractive and surrounded by unplatted lands.
Level Cindered streets; Electricity available. Outlying. Poor transportation; considerable distance to schools, churches and stores. No utilities excepting Electricity. Poorly restricted; surrounded completely by unplatted areas. Dead end streets. Industrial workers Area is located just south of the Michigan State boundary. Too far out and completely isolated. Lack of adequate fire and police protection. Built up only 5 percent. Any further improvements will undoubtedly consist of cheaper priced homes and occupancy by lower income groups.
Level. Cindered roads. Has water, sewer, and electricity. Outlying. Poor restrictions. Isolated. Industrial workers Too far out for better activity at present. Will probably remain "as is" for some years.
Level. Located on Bay. All utilities. Recently annexed to city of Toledo. Outlying. Intermingling of very cheap summer cottages converted into permanent homes. Streets and lots are narrow. Houses are crowded. Industrial workers Same The area is mainly a summer resort area built up with very cheap summer houses. A few better homes intermingled and many of the summer cottages have been cheaply converted into permanent homes.
Level. Cindered streets. Utilities. Adjoins amusement park. Industrial workers Much cheaper homes along 289th Street. Recently annexed to city of Toledo. Will probably remain static. Outlying district. Not attractive.
Level. Cindered streets. No restrictions. No waster, gas, or sewer. Isolated. Surrounded by unplatted lands. Industrial workers Dead-end streets. Occupied laborers and industrial workers. Little improvement is expected in coming years. Will probably go on the down grade.
Level. Transportation. Schools and churches. Close to industry. Some, dirt, etc. Industrial workers and laborers Same This area on the edge of a built up section. Built up with a miscellaneous assortment of homes and scattered groups.
Level. Paved streets. All utilities. Transport. Near schools and churches. Foreign encroachments. Age. Industrial zoning. Miscellaneous Greeks & Syrians Undesirable Originally was the best residential district overlooking the river. Transcended to industrial and rooming house district. Zoned Class "B" residential and industrial.
Level. Paved streets. Close to downtown district, school, and churches. Transportation. Borders on "Red" area. Congested and old. Industrial workers and laborers Several Same The area is zoned 35 per cent commercial and industrial and the trend is downward. One of the oldest sections close in to town.
Level. Streets, transportation, churches and schools, utilities. Encroachment of commercial and industrial. Traffic noise. Miscellaneous Same Area is 45% industrial and commercial. Trend is downward. Detroit Avenue is gradually becoming a business street. Dorr Street is 100% commercial already. Nebraska Avenue is about 25% commercial. Comprises the west end, Polish district and old middle class residential sections. Negro encroachment is threatening on the east side of area.
Level. Cindered roads. Transportation. Near Scott Park and Toledo University. Limited utilities. Close to Industrial. Industrial workers Same Poorly restricted district. Might improve with increased employment because of proximity to industry.
Level. Same paved streets, transportation. No restrictions Industrial workers East half of area consists of better class of homes having city water. West half has no utilities excepting electric lights and is built up with very cheap small homes on small lots and not generally well maintained.
Level. Cindered streets. Bus transportation. Near Inverness Golf Course. Proximity to most highly restricted residential areas (A 1, 2 & 3). Limited utilities. Distance to schools, churches and stores. Restrictions only fair. Spotty repair of homes. Dead end streets. Outlying. White collared and Industrial workers Same Area should show better activity with return of business conditions, due to surroundings. More intense development, however, will be retarded because of limited utilities and distance to churches, schools and community center.
Level. Cindered streets. Electricity and water. Abutts Blue Area (B-20) Outlying. Very distant to schools, churches and stores. Limited utilities. Dead end streets. Surrounded by unplatted areas. Poor restrictions. Poor transportation. White collared and mechanics Not successfully developed on account of outlying location. Lies far west, between Angola and Toledo-Waussean Roads. Isolation of area dead end streets, lack of adequate transportation and utilities retard progress. Will remain a weak "Yellow Area."
Level. Streets. Transportation. Convenient to schools, churches and stores. Dirt, noise and smoke from R. R. yards on the North. Dead end streets. Somewhat heavy vehicular traffic on Wayne St. (to Chicago Pike). R. R. workers This should remain to be a desirable area for R. R. workers due to large rail road yards immediately north of area. Lies immediately west of city limits. Area is surrounded on 3 sides by unplatted land.
Level. Paved streets. Transportation. Schools and churches. All utilities. Age and proximity to railroad. Smoke, dirt, etc. Industrial workers and laborers Old residential section inhabited by railroad employees working in New York Central yards. Will reflect a slowly downward trend.
Level Paved streets. Transportation. All utilities. Near schools and churches. Close to downtown area. Faces Maumee River on south. Red area on north. Foreign encroachment on north east. Smoke, dirt, and noise from railroads. White collared and industrial workers. 1 Same Section lying north of New York railroad and part lying east of Summer Street is zoned heavily industrial (35 per cent of whole area). Trend is downward. Some over-built homes and modernized old homes.
Level Good transportation. Convenient to schools, churches and stores. Adjoins Blue Area (B-12) on south east. All utilities. Adjoins Toledo State Hospital. Smoke, dirt and noise from railroad. Heavily traffic on Detroit Ave. Skilled mechanics R. R. Workers This is a small area occupied by working people. Should remain desirable for sometime for railroad workers, mechanics and employees of large State Hospital which lies just north of area.
Level Paved and cindered streets. Good transportation. Convenient to schools, churches and streets. Adjoins Green Area (A-11) on east. Near Country Club Golf Course and Heather Downs Golf Club. Heavy vehicular traffic on Detroit Avenue Business men, skilled mechanics and white collared workers Area was developed around 1920. Contains a few higher priced homes. Has no particular detrimental influences except that it is outlying. 4 homes constructed last year. Apparently not in line with city's growth.
Level Paved streets 50 per cent; cindered 50 per cent Limited improvements. Colored encroachment. Narrow streets. Smoke, Dirt and noise from railroad. Factory workers Slavic - Same Located in Wood County. Established by the Ford Plate Glass Company in which 90 per cent of its employees reside. Slavish population mostly.
Level Fifty (50) per cent paved streets. All utilities with the exception of gas in the southwest section below Florence Street. Outlying. Isolated. Adjoins "Red" area. Smoke, dirt and noise from railroads. Industrial workers and laborers Same An addition on the southern outskirts of the city. Bounded on the south by railroad property; on the north by railroad and "Red" areas; on the east by unplatted area. Poor restrictions.
Level Twenty (20) per cent paved streets; 80 per cent cindered streets. Adjoins "Blue" area. Limited utilities. Industrial and laborers - Same No restrictions, and cheap construction. Outlying location.
Level. Streets. Electricity, and water. Surrounded by rural unplatted areas. Industrial workers Grading of streets neglected. Many dead-end streets. Somewhat isolated. Laid out during boom of Willys-Overland Plant.
Level Paved streets. All utilities. Close to schools and churches. Transportation. Near business center. Old residential section in the west half of area. Smoke, dirt, and noise from railroad. Business men, industrial skilled mechanics, white collared Same Somewhat newer homes in the east half of area. Intermingling of old and new houses. Commercial and industrial activities.
Level Paved streets. Transportation; churches and schools close by. Near business center. Encroachment of commercial activity, railroads, bridges. Smoke, dirt, noise, and general obsolescence. Industrial workers and laborers. Bulgarians Same Somewhat blighted area. Trend is decidedly downward. Zoned commercial, industrial and residential
Level Paved streets. All utilities. Near schools and churches. Transportation. Zoned heavy industrial from Webb Street northeast. Railroads, smoke, dirt, and general obsolescence. Industrial workers and common labor Hungarians and Italians Yes, 2 Undesirable Section lying south-west of Hocking Valley railroad is zoned residential, with the exception of Front Street which is commercial. Definitely downward. Sprinkled with blast furnaces, power plant, and refineries.
Level. Sloping in places. Twenty-five (25) per cent paved streets. Near schools and churches. Adjoins fine park. Adjoins "blue" area. Seventy-five (75) per cent cindered streets. Poor transportation. Limited utilities. Railroad. Industrial and laborers Scattered homes throughout area. Outlying district. Bordered on east by unplatted farm land. Will probably remain static.
Level Some paved streets. No utilities excepting electricity. Dead-end streets. Isolated and outlying addition Industrial workers and laborers Same Very few homes in this area. Two (2) streets are being paved by W.P.A. grants. Not certain whether above project will create any improvement in activity on account of lack of all public utilities and outlying location. A poor third grade area.
Level Paved streets. Outlying Industrial workers - Same Originally platted for summer resort purposes. Has developed into permanent home sites occupied by industrial workers employed in the adjoining oil refineries, glass plant, and coal loading docks.
Level. Cindered roads-electricity No other utilities. Outlying section. Surrounded by unplatted areas on three sides. Poorly restricted. Industrial workers Addition has never developed to any extent and any improvements will consist of cheaper priced homes.
Level. Cindered street; electricity available in area. Within fair distance to industry. Outlying. No utilities with exception of electricity; surrounded by unplatted areas on 3 sides. Poorly restricted. Considerable distance to schools, churches and shopping district. Industrial workers Addition has never developed to any extent and improvements will consist of cheaper priced homes. Lack of adequate utilities, poor transportation and outlying location will result in influx of lower income groups, in the future.
Level. Paved streets. Transportation. Surrounds Devilbiss High School and Campus and Bounded on all sides by "B" areas. Cemetery on east. Industrial workers Lots are 30 feet. Homes are crowded. Good rental district because of proximity to large industries.
Level. Paved streets. All utilities. Transportation. Slow in developing and surrounded by unplatted areas. Industrial workers Clean neighborhood. Close to industry.
Level. Transportation. Streets. Schools and churches. Close to industry. Encroachment of industry on the south. Industrial workers Better and cleaner homes north of Sylvania Avenue. District south of Sylvania Avenue is somewhat blighted by encroachment of industry and cheaper wage earners.
Level. Area has electricity and water. Fair distance to Industry in north end of city. Clean neighborhood. Surrounded by unplatted areas; limited utilities. Poor streets; lack of adequate transportation; somewhat isolated. Dead end streets. Heavy traffic on Detroit Ave. Industrial workers Area consists of single frame homes; fairly restricted. Laid out along with other sections some 15 years ago with the expansion of North-end development of the city. Improvements will be slow due to outlying location and lack of adequate utilities and transportation.
Level - Unpaved streets, narrow lots. Proximity to railroad, industrial and cemetery. Factory workers Fairly clean as Class "D" areas go. Poor class of residents. No demand for sale.
Level. Proximity to business district and few industries. Old, cheap homes. Common labor Undesirable A cheap run down neighborhood, generally. A Government tenancy project was completed last month. Occupants are all colored. Area surrounding project, however, is bad. Large number of houses being demolished by owners and otherwise.
Level. Close to industries. Located on or near new super highway. (Canal Boulevard). Unpaved streets, narrow lots. Proximity to railroad and Swan Creek. Common laborers Undesirable Lies south of Swan Creek and New York Central railroad. Suffers from smoke, dirt, and all around bad influences. Colored area.
Slight slope to river. Proximity to glass industry. River view. Narrow lots. Poor improvements. Laborers Slavish Undesirable Mostly occupied by workers employed in neighboring glass industry. Located in Wood County. Unincorporated village.
Level. Proximity to industries. Fairly good transportation. Transversed by railroads, smoke, dirt, and general obsolescence. Railroad and factory workers Undesirable Very old residential district. Suffers from industrial encroachments. Some very cheap properties along southern section of area.
Level Adjoins park. Borders on railroad. Few unpaved streets. Narrow lots. Somewhat inaccessible due to change on Broadway. Factory workers and railroad workers Same Some fairly nice homes in central part of area. Lies south of public park.
Level. Transportation. Abutts cemetery. Swamps and hollows. Undesirable Some better homes in the vicinity of Stickney. Suffers from smoke and dirt from prevailing winds.
Level. Overlooks Maumee Bay. Good transportation; streets; Convenient to schools, churches and shopping district; adjoins Bay View Park recreation and amusement. Scenic features. Poor maintenance; influx of colored population and low income group whites. Factory and common laborers Undesirable Area lies in north-east outskirts of city. Formerly a white neighborhood; now rapidly being run down through influx of colored and low income group of whites. Heavy relief load. High vacancy ratio.
Level. Paved streets. Cheap run-down community rapidly transcending to light industrial and commercial occupancy. Oldest slum district in town. Indigents and common laborers Undesirable Zoned light industrial. A few fairly decent homes left in entire area. On whole it is least desirable of any area in town, from a residential standpoint.
Level; section lying north of county line (north of Gypsy Lane) is slightly rolling Restricted and zoned "A" residential. Convenient to schools and churches. Good streets; transportation. Adjoins public park and public golf course - recreation and amusement. Some very expensive homes located in the north-end of area. Adjoins Jewish Cemetery and city hospital on north-west corner. Is in direct path to smoke and gases from large stool mills. Executives, professional and merchants High class - mixed Two synagogues located in neighborhood. Infiltration of high Jewish population. Homes much more desirable and newer in section north of county line. This section is almost free from the undesirable influences mentioned in 1-c. Availability of mortgage funds is somewhat limited by reason of policy of local bankers and not because of any physical drawback of this area. Expensive homes have seen slow recovery in Youngstown, and bankers are hesitant in loaning the maximum amount, claiming that disposal of large homes and estates is a difficult problem. This is the best residential area in the north end of the city. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Level to slightly rolling. Most highly restricted area. Good winding streets; transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Scenic features. Mill Creek Park (on West side) offers splendid recreation facilities and amusement. Homogeneous population. Fastest growing community by far. Practically free from all undesirable influence. Section along Howard Street slightly affected by dirt and noise from railroad running along Southern Boulevard. Executives, professional and business men - Area lies in Boardman Village. This is by far the most desirable Green area on the map. Strong social drawing. People pride themselves in living in "Forest Glenn." Strong desirability of this area has favorably affected the entire south-end community. The highest type doctors and surgeons in Youngstown reside in this area. Located in line with future growth of Youngstown. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value rather than sold.
Perfectly level. Highly restricted area. Good streets and transportations. Convenient to schools and churches. Located in line with future growth of Youngstown. Zoned "A" residential. Practically free from detrimental influences except that high tower of broadcasting station (W.K.B.N.) is located here. This causes annoyance in radio reception. Professional and businessmen Area lies in Boardman Village. A desirable neighborhood build up mostly by Brockway-Williamson-Knott Real Estate Company. Clean and free from dangerous gases from the steel mills. Heavy rain during summer season have tendency to cause damp collars due to perfect flatness of terrain. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value rather than sold.
Level to rolling; overlooking Mill Creek park. Very highly restricted. Fine winding streets. Transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and business center. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Homogeneous population. Scenic features. Generally free from all adverse influences except that values of homes lying in extreme north end of area are somewhat affected due to proximity to cheaper neighborhoods. Bankers, and high executives area consists of unusually fine and high class properties yet within reasonable distance to center of city. It enjoys and enviable social reputation. Extends along one of the most beautiful sections of Mill Creek Park. Homes range from $10,000-$50,000 values. Lots are beautifully landscaped and the winding streets are fringed with spruce and maple trees. Wealthiest people in Youngstown reside here.
Level. Restricted; good streets and transportation. In direct path to growth of city. Convenient to schools and churches. A fine, quiet, and clean residential area. Nominal. Merchants and professional mechanics Mixed (higher type) A very clean and highly desirable area because of the excellent (first class) public and high school and lower taxation. Furthermore, it is free from all smoke and dirt. In path of future growth of Youngstown. Growing very rapidly. Some 40 new residences under construction. Trend is decidedly upwards. Homes are well maintained and pride of ownership is highly evident throughout area. One of the newer residential areas which should show good demand from many years to come. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Level to rolling. Restricted and zoned "A" residential. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Near Crandall and Wick Parks as well as one million dollar Stambaugh Auditorium. Recreation and amusement. Are lies in path of smoke and gases of large steel mill. Merchants, clerks, skilled mechanics and higher paid mill employees. Italian Most of the occupants residing in area have had drastic reductions in income in last 10 years and an increasing number is finding difficulty in retaining their homes. At present the area is experiencing an infiltration of middle class Jewish people. Homes are fairly uniform. Westerly portion of area suffers severely by the fact that children matriculate in a school that is attached by about 30-40 percent "colored". Properties, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level to slightly sloping. Good streets transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and stores. Accessible to park - recreation and amusement. Generally free from all disagreeable influences except that it is surrounded by lower grade area. surrounded by lower grade area Professional and skilled mechanics Mixed (higher type) A small "Blue area" but the "one" desirable residential district in the Village of Struthers. Within walking distance to industry and to the shopping center. Very good community spirit. Pride of ownership is highly evident. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Level. Good streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches and community market. Public swimming pool and branch library located in area. Within walking distance to industry. Clean neighborhood. Affected by Calvary Cemetery on south side. Very heavy vehicular traffic on Mahoning Avenue. Encroachment of stores and small business places on both sides of Mahoning Avenue. Skilled mechanics and steel-workers Higher class mixed This is a desirable section for mill workers and craftsmen in general. Lowest "blue" are in city but accorded this rating because of general favorable appearances and saleability of homes. This area enjoys a remarkable community spirit centered in its High School (Cheney High School). Gradually changing into high "yellow" area. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Rolling and hilly. Well restricted. Good winding streets. Reasonably convenient to schools and churches. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Natural landscaping and scenic features. Absence of all noises. A quiet and refined place to live. Practically free except that transportation is within one-half mile of area. Professional, mill superintendents Beautifully located on hillside overlooking Lake Glacier and Hill Creek Park. Area is free from all detrimental influences and lack of immediate transportation facilities is hardly a "drawback" for the type of people residing here. By far the most scenic of any residential area in city.
Level, rolling toward Hill Creek Park. Restricted. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools, churches and stores. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Scenic features. Uniformity of homes. A clean desirable area. Nominal. Skilled mechanics, teachers and professions High Class Germanslightly a desirable area by middle class people (fully 90% American). A good clean neighborhood. Pride of ownership is highly evident. More expensive homes in south section of area along Canfield Road. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Rolling. Restricted. Reasonably convenient to schools and churches. Excellent streets. Overlooking Mill Creek Park and Lake Newport. Scenic views-recreation and amusement. Uniform population. Free from obnoxious odors, smoke, dust, etc. Bus line only along Canfield Road. (Construction of new bridge will aid transportation problem.) Professional, and businessmen; skilled mechanics. A very desirable location for junior executives and small business men. Curved roads and strict traffic supervision makes it safe and desirable for children. Section lying south of Midlothian Boulevard is beyond city limits. Values will improve with construction of high level bridge spanning Lake Newport, legislation for which has been approved. Property, if acquired, should be held rather than sold.
Level. Slightly sloping toward Mill Creek Park. Good streets; transportation. Convenient to school, churches, and stores. Accessible to Mill Creek Park - amusement and recreation. Free from obnoxious odors. Bordered by cheaper aea on north. Skilled mechanics, teachers, and small business men Mixed (higher type foreign) One of the most desirable areas for middle class owners. The duplexes were built about in 1928 when rentals were high and demand was very strong. Of late years, there has been a tendency to reduction in rents and duplex owners found this type of property a poor investment. Single property, if acquired, should be held for fair value. Duplexes, if acquired, should be disposed of.
Level. Restricted. Transportation; paved streets; convenient to schools and churches; free from smoke, dirt, and noise from industry; low tax rate; in direct path to growth of city. Nominal. Merchants, professional and mechanics Mixed (higher type) This area lies just south of Ewing Road and west of Southern Boulevard in Boardman Township. Attractive because of low tax rate and proximity to excellent schools. Desirable because is it free from detrimental influences such as smoke, dirt, and noise from steel industries. Favorable influences from Area (A-5), lying immediately north of this area, should tend to further improve its desirability. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Fairly level. Good streets; transportation. Convenient to schools, churches, and stores. In direct path of city's growth. Good, clean neighborhood. Suburban car line lying west of area has been converted into coal carrying railroad, resulting in noise and dirt. Skilled mechanics and mill workers Slovaks (higher type) Section lying north of Midlothian Road is 95% built up. A good, desirable section for the working class. Some 15-20 new homes built within last 12 months. In line with city's growth. Trend is upward. Property, if acquired, should be held rather than sold.
Level. Good streets; fair transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Accessible to Yellow Creek Park - recreation and amusement. Outlying. Fair transportation only. Professional and mill officials Senior executives Area is located in the village of Poland; possibly the most desirable suburban village in Youngstown area. OCcupants consist of a very fine and high type people. Away from the city noise, etc. People seem to like to live in Poland and property sells very readily.Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Level. Good transportation. Convenient to schools. High ratio of home ownership. No utilities except electricity and water. Surrounded on two sides by cemeteries. Spotty repairs. Unpaved streets. Infiltration of lower income group. Steel workers and laborers Mixed - Same This area lies in Liberty Township, Trumbill County. Inhabited practically by steel workers and laborers because of proximity to the Briar Hill Works of the Youngstown Sheet-Tube Company. Most of owners have more than one lot which additional space is utilized for small gardening. A fairly settled community of mixed foreign occupants. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level to rolling. Good transportation and streets; convenient to schools and churches. Nearness to Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company and Republic Steel Corporation. Adjoins playgrounds and park - recreation and amusement. Established neighborhood. Influx of lower income group and colored populations. Lack of upkeep in north section of area. Cheaply constructed homes except on Hunter and Julian Avenies. No uniformity of homes. Adjoins cemetery on south. Mill workers Mixed Undesirable Finer and more desirable properties along Hunter and Julian Avenues. The extreme north section, however, is much cheaper and undesirable because of the influx of colored and lower class white. Extreme south section is mostly vacant. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Rolling. Good winding streets; transportation convenient to schools and churches. Zoned residential and restricted. Accessible to Pine Hollow Park. High ration of ownership. Bounded by cheap "yellow" and "red" areas. Westerly part particularly is influenced by infiltration of lower income group. Superintendents, foremen, and mechanics Mixed (higher type) No Same This area was developed in 1918-20 by the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company for its higher class employees. Good clean residential district. Uniform homes. A settled community. Extreme east end is built up by 2-4 family apartments. area is accorded a high "yellow" rating instead of a "blue" because it borders on a "red" area on the north and very cheap "yellow" area on the west. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value, rather than held. Area, together with adjoining territory suffers greatly when mills are shut down. Not in line of city's growth.
Fairly level. Good streets and transportation; convenient to schools and churches. Trees. Fair uniformity of homes. All utilities. Bounded on south and west by farm lands. Mill workers Mixed This section, like section lying just north of it, suffered very heavily during the depression due to the unemployment. It has, however, made a fairly good "comeback" recently. Should keep its present status for next 5-10 years. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. Rental prices in this area are low.
level to rolling. Good streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and stores. Very mild restrictions. Influx of lower income group. Instability of income of area's occupants. Bordered on south by farm lands. Mill workers and clerks Mixed Same Area is located in Struthers, Ohio. Comprised chiefly of mill workers. Slight encroachment of negroes along Columbus, Marion, Washington, Hawthorne, and Stewart Streets. Construction of homes is fair. A settled community. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level. Good streets along north section of area. Proximity to Poland Village. Several unpaved streets. Inadequate transportation. Lack of complete sewage. Distance to schools, churches and community center. Outlying. Surrounded by unplatted territory. Mill workers and small business men Mixed No Same A few better homes located in the north section. The remainder consists of very modest homes scattered throughout area. Two very expensive homes located on Olds Avenue. Trend seems to be definitely static. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Rising to the south. Good streets and transportation; convenient to schools and churches. Adjoins Yellow Creek Park on west. Infiltration along east boundary of lower income groups. Outlying. Mill workers and laborers Mixed No Same Area comprised chiefly of mixed foreign groups employed by the Steel Mills. Homes and surroundings are well maintained and the area as a whole evidences pride of ownership. Very few homes for rent. Properties however, if acquired, should be sold because demand is restricted to foreigners whose present income still remains insecure.
Rising to the east. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Within walking distance to industry. Heavy vehicular traffic along Coitsville Road. Instability of income of area's occupants. Mill workers and laborers Mixed - Same Area consists of 75% mixed foreign occupants. Desirable to this type of purchaser because of proximity to industry. Section north of Blossom Street is largely undeveloped. Area shows a scattering of fine brick residences. Desirability fluctuates greatly with the steel industry employment situation. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Rolling. Good roads. Convenient to schools and churches. Largely undeveloped. Light infiltration of negroes. Limited utilities. Outlying. Surrounded on all sides by "red" areas. Inadequate transportation. Mill workers Same Area consists of a scattering of small homes and cheap farm lands. Little demand because of inaccessibility to the steel mills. No utilities excepting electricity. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held. Area covers entire village of Coitsville.
Level. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools. Located near playground. Close to Truscon Steel Mills. Surrounded by "red" area. Some dirt and smoke from mills. Influx of lower income group. Mill workers Mixed No Same Area was developed in 1925-26. Occupied mostly by people who came to Youngstown from the mining districts in Pennsylvania. a practically solid group of better type foreigners. Homes are fairly uniform and well maintained. Area will retain its present status for next 5-10 years. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Level, excepting east end which is rolling to hilly. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches and to stores. Adjoins park - recreation and amusement. Smoke and dirt from steel mills. East side of area overlooks industrial section. Encroachment of blighted population. Heavy vehicular traffic along Logan Avenue. Influx of lower income group. Mechanics and steel workers Italian (and mixed) A good residential section for the working class. Within walking distance to industry. In future desirability will undoubtedly decline due to gradual enlargement of blighted territory on the south and west borders (D-2). Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level. - No restrictions; inadequate transportation; distance of 5 miles to centralized school. No utilities except electricity and water. Outlying and undeveloped. Poor streets. Homes in poor state of repair. "Jerry" building Laborers Mixed This is an undeveloped section lying north-west of the city limits. No new construction in area in past 1- years. Houses are of cheap construction. Generally undesirable because of location and very limited utilities. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held. Area is accorded a low "yellow" rating instead of a "red" because the general character of the neighborhood is not yet sufficiently established.
Level, Fairly good streets. Inadequate transportation. About 4 miles to nearest school. No utilities except electricity and water. Outlying. lack of adequate fire and police protection. Mill workers and store and office workers. Mixed - Same This area was laid out in 1918. Poorly developed and never took to the buying public because of being out of line with general growth of city. Homes are generally scattered through area. Some "Jerry" building along south-east end of area. Trend is definitely downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level to sloping. Convenient to schools and churches; near athletic field and swimming pool. Borders on blue area on south. All utilities. Dead end streets; influx of lower income group. Spotty repair; lack of upkeep. Inadequate transportation in north section of area. Mill workers and laborers Slovak $ Section lying north of Burbank Avenue is undeveloped on account of ravine. Area suffers because it borders on blighted territory on the north and east sides. Future development will be heavier foreign. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level to sloping toward Mill Creek to the south. Gradual rise from east to west. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Adjoins public playground. Accessible to recreation - amusement - swimming pool. Within reasonable distance to places of employment. Heavy vehicular traffic along Mahoning Avenue (main artery from the west). Narrow lots. Instability of income of area's occupants. Mill Workers Slovaks Desirable area for mill workers employed at the Carnegie Steel Mills nearby. Lies within close proximity to all civic activities. Homes in this area are modern and of fairly sound construction. Property, if acquired, should be sold at a reasonable price but not at a sacrifice.
Comparatively level. Transportation, paved streets, utilities, accessibility to parks, playgrounds, and city activities. Older houses, surrounding and adjoining area of poorer quality. Mechanics and city workers Mixed One of the older districts. Lack of architectural features and comprehensive planning. Better homes along the south end of area. Encroachment of stores along Market, Oakhill and Hillman Streets. Slow infiltration of lower income group. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level to slightly up-grade from the north end to the south end. good streets and transportation; all utilities. Convenient to schools, churches, stores and all city activities. Accessible to playground and parks - recreation and amusement. railroad transverses center of area from north to south; noise and dirt. City workers and skilled mechanics. MixedSane Area is still desirable by the working class but is being gradually influenced by the expansion of lower income groups and change in nationality along the north and east sections of area. Better homes along Southern Boulevard south of Midlothian Road. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Level to slightly sloping from east to west good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools, churches and stores. Heavy vehicular traffic along south avenue. Encroachment of stores and business places on South Avenue. City dump and Segregation Hospital are located in area. Mill workers and clerks Mixed Area was fairly well developed in about 1922. Free of colored people which fact should permit area to remain "as is" for several years. Desirable by mill workers because of proximity to Youngstown Shoot and tube Company. Property, if acquired, should be sold but no sacrificed.
Level to rolling. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools. Walking distance to the steel mills. Instability of incomes of area's occupants. Difficulty of rental collections. Low standards of living. Generally undesirable with increasing negro population. Noise, smoke and dirt from railroad and industry. Mill workers and laborers Mixed Undesirable One of poorer and undesirable residential districts. Trend is rapidly downward. Better class of occupants are moving away. Practically all single type homes interspersed by shacks. Property, if acquired, should be sold promptly.
Level to rolling. Good streets and transportation. Convenience to schools and churches. Within walking distance to industry. Noise, smoke and dirt from industries and railroads. Low standards of living, instability of income of area's occupants. Difficulty of rental collections. Infiltration of negro element. Mill workers and laborers Mixed Undesirable This area is generally referred to as Monkey's Next and Briar Hill district. Slum elimination project is in progress covering section lying between Ardale, Griffith, and Morrison avenues in the south end of area. Generally undesirable. Property, if acquired, should be sold promptly. Trend is definitely downward.
Level to slightly rising to the north. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools, churches, near business center. Art Gallery is located here. Business encroachment all along Which Avenue. Infiltration of lower income group whites. Negro population increasing. White collared, mill workers and laborers - Same Evergrowing influx of negroes and low class Jewish in the westerly end. Many of the homes are being converted into rooming houses. Better type occupants are moving elsewhere. Trend is downward and property, if acquired, should be sold as rapidly as possible. Was once the Bon Ton street of Youngstown. A few of the "old" mansions still remain on Wick Avenue.
Level to rolling. Good streets; transportation. Convenient to schools, churches. Close to business center and industry. Infiltration of lower income group. Low standards of living. Increasing negro population. Northwest section is sparsely developed. Smoke, dirt and noise from industry. Mill workers and laborers Mostly Italians Undesirable the southwesterly half is a portion of the oldest settlement in Youngstown. Depreciating very rapidly except along the north-easterly section lying south of McGuffey Road and Stewart avenue. Better type occupants are moving elsewhere. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Rolling. Fairly good streets; transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Heavy negro population. Low standards of living. Difficulty of rental collection. Instability of income of area's occupants. Consists of shacks and single family homes. Cheap, dirty, and generally undesirable location. Mill workers and laborers Mixed Undesirable Known as Sharon Line district or the "Harlem" of Youngstown. Considered the poorest and cheapest residential area in the whole city. Original "soup kitchens" during the depression were in this area. Banks are selling very good houses in this area for about $2000-2500 or about 40*cents on the dollar. In fact, they will consider any offer within reason.
Rolling. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Near business center and industry. Adjoins public park on west boundary. Slight infiltration of Negro population. Both sides of Market Street is being taken over by stores. Very old section of city. Dirt and noise. On the down grade. Mill workers and laborers Mixed Undesirable Small sports of negroes settling all through the area thereby threatening the entire district. Better homes ranging around $4000-5000 are located south of west Woodland avenue and west of Hollmen Street. One of oldest residential sections in Youngstown. Trend is downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held.
Flat Good streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Instability of income of area's occupants. Area is 75% "colored". Generally undesirable to people other than negroes. Mill workers, laborers, hotel workers Mixed Undesirable A small colored area surrounded by "Yellow" district. This colored section is spreading out in the north and easterly directions, threatening desirability of surrounding territory. Trend is downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold promptly as values are declining.
Rolling. Good transportation and streets. Convenient to schools, churches and market. Close to steel mills. Difficulty of rental collections. Smoke, dirt and noise from steel mills. Lack of upkeep and general maintenance. Infiltration of negroes and lower class whites. Generally undesirable. Mill workers and common laborers Mixed Undesirable The entire district has a poor reputation. Good families are rapidly vacating. Values are declining. Area comprises all of Campbell, Ohio, with the exception of northerly part bounded by McCartney Rd. and Tenney Ave. between 12th and 17th Sts. Foreign population 40%; negro, 40%. Colored people are scattering through the area. Property, if acquired, should be sold as quickly as possible. Properties consist of singles, ranging all the way from $1000-10,000. No uniformity. Area is attractive only to foreign and colored mill workers because of its immediate proximity to the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company plant.
Rolling. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Outlying. Homes are neglected and entire area is generally run-down and dirty. Colored population is 90 percent. Mill workers and common laborers Mixed Undesirable A small section of undesirable negro population. Certainly the poorest location in Struthers, Ohio. Values are rapidly declining, and property, if acquired, should be sold as quickly as possible.
Rolling to level; high elevation. Good roads; highly restricted. Professional and business men Desirable This is the best class "A" residential in Canton; 90% homeowners; many new homes under construction. Pride of ownership is highly evident; free from smoke, dirt and industry encroachment.
Level Paved streets; highly restricted; near school; good transportation. Some low land adjacent to area on the north. Professional men and junior executives Desirable This is a relatively new development. All improvements are in; easily accessible; free from smoke and encroachment by industry.
Level Good transportation - near to schools and churches adjacent to park system; restricted neighborhood. Business men and white collared Desirable Good residential section; pride of ownership; near business district; homes are kept in good repair. Sale prices are advancing. Employment among people in this area good. One of the older residential sections but demand is still good. Unable to make finer breakdown of this area because of mixture of cheaper homes side by side with higher priced properties.
Level Good transportation; excellent school; churches; trees. Business & white collar Desirable A relatively new residential section restricted to single dwellings. A clean community; fine homes; pride of ownership. Infiltration of desirable.
Level Good streets; adequate transportation; near schools and churches. Somewhat affected by "Fair Grounds" on west side and Cemetery east of the area White-collared and skilled mechanics Desirable Good residential section; within half mile of Myer Lake; clean neighborhood.
Level Good transportation During heavy rainfall low point along W. Tuscarawas Street and Banner Avenue will gather surface water. White collared and skilled mechanics Desirable This area is restricted to residences; adjoins Mt. Marie Academy for girls on W. Tuscarawas; clean neighborhood; spacious lots; pride of ownership is highly evident; area lies west of the Corporation limits. Real estate is active in the west and north-west section in Canton. Entire area contains a mixture of very low and high priced homes side by side.
Level Good transportation Unallotted territory to the south of area appears to retard development somewhat. White collared and skilled mechanics Desirable Section is in the direction of city's active growth and development; fairly clean neighborhood - suburban territory, homes are well kept. Very few homes in this area prior to 1935. Eight new homes under construction at present.
Level Good transportation - high school, grade schools and churches; paved streets. White collared and skilled mechanics Mixed More newer homes from Concord Avenue West; new construction is active - good neighborhood - about 15 homes in this section that run slightly over general price range set above. Area contains a mixture of high class and cheaper properties side by side.
Level Good transportation - good streets - schools and churches - city park - high school Section along North and 6th Street affected somewhat by abandoned factory building. White collared and skilled mechanicsxMixed Very good residential community and paved streets - pride of ownership. Although area suffers slightly from foreign-born influx, it nevertheless, is a good residential section and sales activities are reported good.
Level Good transportation - good streets - restricted neighborhood. Adjoins Pennsylvania Railroad on south, undeveloped territory immediately to the west. White collared and skilled mechanics Desirable This area was developed by the Timken Roller Bearing Company. Due to a housing shortage in Canton and the Company decided to build a number of residences for its employees. Some 250 houses were built here and in area C-10 in 1920. Average price of home in 1920 was $5600. Area is restricted and well kept. Demand is good.
Level Good transportation - good streets - schools - church - neighborhood center. Small factory to south-west of area. Skilled mechanics mixed Clean neighborhood; pride of ownership. In the southeast section of the city. Surrounded on 3 sides by cheaper property. A "light blue" area. A few cheaper homes on eastern border of area.
Level Community church and school - addition is well planned - restricted - good transportation. Railroad shop is 1/2 mile south of area. Skilled mechanics and railroad men Mixed Section south of Mahoning Road is less built up and values are slightly cheaper; foreign population concentrated south of Mahoning Road.
Level Good transportation Adjoins railroad on north and Corporation limits on south and west. Mill workers / Mixed Fairly clean neighborhood - occupied by mill workers - near steel industries and railroads.
Level Good streets - good transportation - schools and churches; public park south of area. Nominal Mill workers Mixed Somewhat smaller and cheaper homes in northeastern section of area. It is, however, a good area for mill workers. Near to industry - fairly clean neighborhood.
Rolling to level. Good streets - good transportation - public school - adjoins Nimisilla Park. Adjoins Lake Erie Railroad on east and abutts creek on east. Mill workers; some white collar class Mixed Fairly good neighborhood; adjoins business on extreme south end. Occupied mostly by mill workers. Values are returning slowly. Light influx of mixed foreign population.
Level Good transportation - adjoins McKinley monument on north. Adjoins West Lawn cemetery on west and water works on east. Small business and white collared Desirable This is an old neighborhood - a number of lots were cut narrow and short. Area is kept fairly clean - sale demand is only fair.
Level Transportation - good streets - schools and churches; not far from business section of city. Baltimore and Ohio railroad abutts on west side of area. White collared; clerk & mill workers Mixed This is a fairly old neighborhood adjoining business district. This area is located south of section "B-1". Trend appears slightly downward.
Level Good streets - transportation - borders the business district on south end. Adjoins railroad on northwest of area. Laboring Undesirable An old community; mixed population; not much demand for homes here. Trend is downward. Fairly good neighborhood for laboring class of people.
Level Good transportation Adjoins industry on the north - Corporation limits on the west. Mill laborers 5 Undesirable Heavy foreign population resides here. Poor mortgage risk; cheap neighborhood. Values for both sale and rental have not been increased during next year. Negro population amounts to 15%.
Level Good transportation - good streets - near schools and park. Adjoins industry on southeast - vacant land southwest of area. Mill workers Desirable This is a fairly clean neighborhood - near industry - good location for mill workers.
Level Good transportation - good streets - near schools. Nominal Mill workers Mixed Fairly clean laboring section - walking distance to industry. Good location for mill workers. Light sales activity.
Level Good transportation - near schools, both Public and Parochial. Adjoins factory on south - Area is affected somewhat by smoke and dirt. Mill workers & laborers Undesirable Fairly good location for cheaper type of labor. A mixed foreign community. Negroes constitute 5% of community. Slight increase in scale and rental values during past 12 months.
Level Good transportation - near school Adjoins factories on the east; business center of lowest type - dirt and filth and degrading neighborhood. Common laborers Very undesirable A good many dilapidated and vacant rooming houses that are uninhabitable. Many vacant store rooms on main streets. This area is occupied by the lowest social class in this city. Very poor sale demand. No increase in values during past 12 months.
Level Good transportation Railroad runs through center and extreme southeastern part of area; affected by smoke and dirt. Laboring class Mixed This is an old German settlement slowly declining and being replicated gradually by foreigners and lower wage class American and some negroes. Not far from downtown business section. Property values were static past 12 months.
Level Transportation - good streets; church and schools. On extreme southeast Corporation line; adjoins Railroad on north. Millworkers & laborers Undesirables This is an Italian community. Fairly good neighborhood for lower bracket earners. Poor sales activity. Not much prospect for improvement. Property values remained static past 12 months.
Level Transportation - schools and church Adjoins factory on north and railroad on northeast; also scattered factories through area. Laborers Undesirable This is a colored section - lower class of Jews and Italians - old section of the city. No demand for sales. No increase in sale or rental values during past 12 months.
Level Good streets - transportation Adjoins light manufacturing on southwest - railroad runs through center of section. Factory workers Mixed Fairly good section for laboring class. An old American settlement Area is interspersed by small retail business shops. One of the older areas in the city. Values were reported static for past 12 months.
Level Good transportation - schools Adjoins factories on south and east; smoke and dirt. Laborers and mill workers Undesirable This was a good neighborhood for the lower bracket earners in the peak years. Slightly better than area "D-2" and "D-5" but heavily populated by foreign-born and is on the downward trend. No improvements in values during past 12 months.
Executives and professional This excellent, highly restricted area is built around Silver Lake, considered the most beautiful lake in Summit County. Although platted in 1917, the area was not really developed until about 1927 after removal of a run-down amusement park located the shore of the lake. Now, this district is 25% built up, the fine winding streets are lined with maple trees, and the whole area is artistically landscaped. Pride of ownership is naturally very evident and trend of neighborhood is definitely upward. The present price range averages from $8000-$20,000, although several properties are considerably above the highest figure quoted. School facilities and transportation are good. Property, if acquired, should be held for a fair market value.
Office executives and professional The Firestone Tire & Rubber Company through its Land Company, laid out this area as an entire community for its junior executives and office workers in 1918. The land for the churches and large grade school was donated by Harvey S. Firestone Sr. The city's finest and second newest high school named Garfield (enrollment 2700) is located in this area on a spacious landscaped city block plot which includes its football stadium. The grade school is also on a plot this size and fronts on a large park donated by Firestone for the community's recreation (tennis and baseball). This area also contains parochial schools (corner Brown and Wilbeth Street). The commercial area is concentrated on Aster Avenue (by restriction - within two blocks) facing the rear of the Firestone Park grade school. The finest, newest homes (some $30,000) are located on Firestone Boulevard where it branches to border the recreation park. This clean, quiet neighborhood is 80% built up on lots averaging 50-ft frontage. The streets are all paved (except east of Brown Street) and lighted by underground system. Restrictions are uniform except in southwest border (highest on Firestone Boulevard). The cheap homes in southwest were built prior to development. The section north of Brown Street was developed by the Herberich-Hall-Harter Company in 1926-1929. Transportation is good and vehicular traffic is heavy on Brown St., Aster Avenue, Firestone Boulevard and Wilbeth Road. Property, if acquired, should command a fair value.
Professional and business men This is the best residential area in Barberton, surrounds the attractive Tuscora (recreational) Park, abutts the Anna Dean Golf Course, and lies on an elevation overlooking the balance of the city. This area was laid out about 1919 and is now about 60% built up; 50% of streets paved (balance well graded and graveled) cemented sidewalks. School facilities are very good and transportation is fair. Traffic on Tuscarawas Avenue is fairly heavy. The trend for this section is slightly upward. Property, if acquired, should be held for a fair value.
executives, high class office workers and mechanics remaining high class This area, well landscaped by nature, adjoins two beautiful public parks, and by virtue of its existing price range from $5000 to $10,000, enjoys a relatively heavy occupancy demand (20 homes in $8500 class built here last year). Now built up 70%, this section was originally platted between 1916-1920. The average lot frontage is 55 feet and the whole district is clean and free from detrimental influences. Only a few outlying streets remain unpaved and special assessments on the balance are practically all paid by now. Transportation is excellent and area is convenient to schools, churches, and stores. Sales activity in district has been good and at fair price. Property, if acquired, should be held for its just value. (Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Broad Street.)
Executives and professional - This is the finest, newest residential section in the city. Originally developed in 1920 as an ultra-exclusive district, separate from Akron, this area was named the Village of Fairlawn. However, the severity of the 1930 decline in home construction in this rapidly developed area, due to its very exclusiveness and unwarranted size, caused the promoters to petition for annexation. This was approved by the City of Akron in 1932. The main part, containing the most beautiful and expensive homes ( a few cost as high at $70,000) lies south of the Akron-Medina Road on an artistically landscaped, heavily wooded plateau. (Since plateau rises approximately 100 feet above the A.C. Y. railroad at south end, there is little if any influence by this usual detriment.) The lots average 70 foot frontage and are traversed by excellent winding streets (70% in area paved). The area is now built up 35% - formerly, the minimum improvement restriction was $15,000 but now has been reduced to $12,500. Six homes from $14,000 up were built in area last year. Due to the city's weak financial condition, installation of utilities has been slow and has delayed development of area. However, all utilities now have been installed except gas and electricity in 50% of area (mostly undeveloped). Schools, churches, and stores are convenient; transportation is only fair, but not important to this type of resident. North part surrounds the excellent Fairlawn Golf Course.
Professional, business, and merchants This area was developed in 1920 as an attractive location for the medium class buyer who desired to live in this part of the city but could not afford to purchase homes in the adjoining highly restricted areas. The following progress has been made since the area was laid out in 50 foot lots; built up 40%; streets paved 30% (balance well graded and cindered, with cemented sidewalks); utilities 100% installed. Schools, stores and churches are conveniently near (commercial section centrally located on W. Market Street). Transportation is good in part east of Hawkins Avenue, but only fair in balance of area. Although minimum improvement restriction is $4500, a few homes in the $20,000 class are located in area principally along W. Market Street (north side). Twelve homes in $6500 class were constructed along Harcourt Drive during year. The Hardesty Park, located in southeastern part, was formerly reserved but is now being filled and graded by W.P.A. Smoke, dirt, and noise from traversing A.C.&Y. railroad only partially affects area (abutting properties) since but two trains run daily. General outlook for district is good and property, if acquired, should be held for fair price.
Professional and executives This very desirable residential area, surrounding the exclusive Portage Country Club (Golf and Tennis) and bordering the beautiful Metropolitan Park System, was developed between 1922-1929 as a highly restricted district averaging 65-70 foot lot frontage (except northwest corner part containing smaller lots and cheaper homes). Many large estates abutt or are located in this area (Firestone Seiberling, etc). No attempt was made to evaluate or include these luxurious homes in the above price brackets. The topography of the area is level to rolling and excellent wooded (some - virgin), affording scenic view. Only slight disturbance is caused by the traversing A.C.&Y. Railroad since but two trains pass each day and the roadbed lied considerably lower than surrounding territory. At present the area is built up 25 per cent; homes average 50-ft set back from the well-paved streets; boulevard lighting throughout; good transportation; excellent schools (King Grade School - finest in city); store center is rather distant but this is not important to type of resident. The cheaper area lying off Garman Road immediately north of the Country Club will improve and tend to conform with standard of area when more fully developed. Six homes were built in the district last year.
Business, office men, and teachers - The plateau, on which this restricted area was developed in 1925-1930, overlooks a deep scenic gorge carved by the Cuyahoga River through solid rock. The High Level Bridge across this ravine is the area's (and abutting districts) only outlet to the north. The main traversing arteries (Main Street & N. Howard) begin at this bridge. This neighborhood is approximately 75 per cent built up; high price bracket homes are principally located on N. Howard Street, lots averaging 55-60 foot frontage; cheaper homes on Main Street (80 foot road-bed) are detrimentally affected by heavy vehicular traffic although they are well set back on lots averaging 45-50 foot frontage. Stores, schools and churches are fairly convenient and transportation is good. However, area appears to have reached its peak, and trend will be static to slowly downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value.
Executives, merchants and office workers Prior to the development of the Portage Path District (abutting on north) and annexation of Fairlawn Heights (Area A-3), this was the finest and most desirable new residential section in Akron. Development on this slightly rolling area began in 1920 and thorough planning resulted in lots averaging 50-ft frontage, boulevard lighting, and good paved streets. The highly restricted improvements are located north of Delia Avenue. Homes gradually lower in prices from Stadelman Avenue to the south. The area is built up 65 per cent and convenient to stores, schools, and churches. Eight new homes were constructed last year. Pride of ownership is very evident and the present desirability of this district as a homesite should maintain its high rating for the next 10-20 years. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Market Street (EW) and fairly heavy on Delia Avenue (EW) and Hawkins Avenue (NS). Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Tradesmen, mechanics, and office workers Development in this clean medium-priced section of 45-foot front lots began principally in 1922, although northern-most part (containing several 2-family homes, 3 per cent, on Madison and Whittier) and eastern "hook" projection (containing finest homes abutting Perkins Park) were developed earlier. Pride of ownership is evident; lots are well landscaped; 75% of streets are paved and balance (western part) hard surface. Ten homes were built in area last year. Several apartments (high rent) and small retail enterprises are located on Copley Road (main traversing artery), principally between Wildwood - Mercer Avenues and Roslyn Avenue - Frederick Boulevard. Presence of store structures is considered a shopping convenience by residents; and apartments due to high type occupants, do not appear to detrimentally affect surrounding home values. The area is now 60% built up and should maintain its present standard. Property, if acquired, should command a fair value.
junior executives and office workers This quiet, wooded area lies on the highest part of Goodyear Heights. Although a portion of the large development of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, most homes here were privately constructed and the neighborhood is now 70% built up on lots averaging 50-ft frontage. One of the city's Metropolitan Parks abutts this area's northeast boundary. Due to the surrounding influence of slightly cheaper homes and the lessening desirability of the entire east side of city in the eyes of high type occupants, this area has reached its peak, but will remain more desirable than the surrounding "Blue" territory, since only age will affect its superiority. Stores, schools, and churches are convenient; all streets paved; boulevard lighting throughout; good transportation. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Newton Street (EW). Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Office men This section, known as Silver Heights and Silver Lake Highlands, is briefly covered as follows: platted, 1917; average lot, 60 feet; built up, 60%; price range, $3500-7500; streets paved, 80% (balance cindered); transportation, good; school facilities, good. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on the Cuyahoga Falls-Kent Road and the Springfield-Stow-Hudson Road. This is a clean outlying residential district and although not uniformly restricted throughout, will improve (trend upward). Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value. A few homes fronting on the Cuyahoga Falls-Kent Road are priced from $10,000-12,000 with lot frontage of 90-150 feet.
Merchants - Office workers - factory workers and mechanics Hungarian and Italian Slight eastward movement of foreigners along Courtland and Bellevue Avenues into western border of section. This area, originally the southwestern city limits until annexation of Kenmore (bordering southern boundary) abutts the very desirable Copley Road residential district lying to the north. The elevation of area is considerably higher in northern part and the better homes lie in northern-most projection of area, beginning at Packard Drive and Diagonal Road. Small homes and bungalows are mostly in southwestern part. The area is approximately 70% built up; average lot frontage 40 feet; 60% streets paved (balance well-graded and cindered, with cement sidewalks); transportation good; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Northern part of area, excepting west border, should improve, but southeastern part is slowly declining due to age and encroaching "Yellow" areas. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Wooster and East Avenues and heavy on Diagonal Road. Property, is acquired, (south of Diagonal Road) should be sold since incentive in this part is to sell.
Business men, white collared, factory workers and laborers Hungarian-Slovaks This district was a part of the city of Kenmore until annexation by the City of Akron in 1929. The earliest development consisted of cheap small homes by owners attracted by the cheapness of land and encouraged by the lack of restrictions and absence of utilities. Later development and installation of utilities brought the building of better type homes. The subject area surrounds the short business district of Kenmore which lies on Kenmore Boulevard between 11th and 18th streets. The average lot frontage is 40 feet; built up 50%; transportation fair to limited; schools, churches and stores convenient only to southern and eastern parts of area. The best homes and most desirable section of the area lie in that part east of 13th Street between Indian Trail and Montana - Viewland Avenues. This section, situation on a plateau and known as Overlook Allotment, was platted into a first-class residential district of 50-foot front lots - is now 75% built up and will improve. However, general outlook for balance of area is only fair and little hope exists for improvement of central western part due to cheapness of homes and low locality.
Office workers and white collared Hungarian and Italian Slow infiltration of Italians and Hungarians in upper north end of area from C-10 and D-7. This area was laid out in 1917 and comprises the major part of Goodyear Heights. The entire Goodyear Heights Allotment was promoted and developed by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company to the interest of their employees. Well restricted, the area is 70% built up; average lot frontage 45 feet; all improved streets except those bordering Eastland Avenue; good transportation; very good school facilities; convenient to small shopping districts and churches; rolling terrain. Vehicular traffic is heaviest along Newton St. (E-W), Brittain Road (N-S), and Eastland Avenue (NE-SW). The southwestern part of area is within short walking distance to industry. The north section skirting Eastland Avenue consists mostly of cheaper homes of frame "single" construction. The southwest part of area is partially affected by smoke and dirt from the Goodyear factory and abutting railroad. On the whole, the area should maintain its present level for several years provided that the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company (from which most residents of this section derive their income) stabilizes itself.
Merchants, office workers, and skilled mechanics Several Slow infiltration of foreign element The subject area was platted approximately 20 yrs. ago and is now 60% built up; average lot frontage 40 feet; 15-20% streets paved (balance well-graded, and cindered or graveled). Transportation is fair and area is within reasonable distance to schools, churches and community stores. The general topography of the district is level to rolling. Area is desirable since its heavily trafficked main artery (E. Market Street-Akron-Canton Road) provides rapid travel to industry. The neighborhood is well-kept and clean except for the north border which is partially affected by smoke, noise and dirt from the large nearby railroad yards. Homes in area are generally well built for only 30% are of "single" construction and the majority of those are in 1-story bungalow type. Property, if acquired, should be sold at a fair price.
Mostly rubber workers Various Slow infiltration of foreign element into north and eastern part. This area consists of several small allotments surrounding the first-class Firestone Park district. Earliest development began in 1917-18 along north-western end as part of the Firestone Land Company's interest; the Herberich-Hall-Harter Company developed the north section in 1922-23, and the eastern part in 1926-27; the southeastern part between Thornapple and Coventry Sts. is a continuation of the Firestone Land Company holding developed in 1927-28; and the southwestern part (mostly acreage) was developed in 1928-1929 by the Myers family. Area is approximately 55% built up; average lot frontage 45 feet; 25% streets paved (balance cindered and cement sidewalks); school facilities good; fairly convenient to community stores, churches and transportation, except southeasterly part. Practically 70% of homes are of "single" construction. This area will remain attractive to rubber works because of proximity to Firestone Tire and Rubber Company. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Main Street (western boundary). Property, if acquired, should be sold at fair price.
Mechanic and rubber workers Slavish This is one of the newer residential areas for the majority of the homes were built since 1922. This area is surrounded by "Yellow" consisting mostly of undeveloped acreage. This section is approximately 70% built up (better homes north of Waterloo Road). All utilities are in except adequate sewage (mostly south of Waterloo Road). Streets are mostly unpaved, but well graded and cindered with sidewalks installed. Average lot frontage 45 feet; transportation fair; school facilities good (grade school on Manchester Road opposite area). This section is close to the Portage Lakes District and vehicular traffic is heavy on Manchester Road and Waterloo Road. The general outlook of fair for this area is due only to its general isolation and distance from the downtown business center. Property, if acquired, should be sold for a fair offer, but not sacrificed.
Business men and store keepers The characteristics of this section are as follows: platted - 1910; built up 80%; streets paved; transportation - good; school facilities - good; terrain - fairly level. Cheaper homes are located in the northern part of this small section abutting farmland on its northwest border. Approximately 40% of the homes in this area are of single construction (this percentage is noticeably higher in the surrounding slightly cheaper neighborhood). Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Norton Avenue and the better homes are located here. The trend of this area should remain static to firm for the next few years. Property, if acquired, should be held for a fair value.
Business men and factory workers Slavish of Slavish speaking people This area was laid out 20 years ago and is covered as follows: built up, 60%; average lot frontage, 45 feet; streets paved 25% (balance graveled); transportation, fairly good; school facilities, good. Vehicular traffic is heavy on Fifth Avenue. Smoke, dirt and noise from Akron-Barberton Belt line, B&O and Erie Railroads affect the western part of district. This area abutts the north boundary of Tuscora Park, and is within walking distance of the downtown district. Approximately 75% of the homes in this district are of single construction. Rating for this security area is very "Light Blue." Property, if acquired should be sold for fair value.
Professional and business men Very light infiltration of American-born Hungarians This small area, surrounding Lake Anna, is fully built up and once the finest residential section in Barberton. This section abutts the Barberton business center on Second and Tuscarawas Streets. The majority of the homes are from 35-45 years old, but practically all of the original owners are gone and a few properties are available for "roomers." This district has maintained its present level because of its setting around the beautiful Lake Anna (boating, fishing, and winter sports available). Properties have been kept in good state of repair and some have been thoroughly modernized recently. Fair value should be obtained for property, if acquired.
Professional and Business men This section was laid out in 1919 and named Long Lake Estates. Practically all lots have been sold but area is only 15% built up. Streets well graded and cindered. The average lot frontage is 50 ft. Transportation is fair; school facilities are good. Vehicular traffic is heavy on Warner Road and South Main Street Extension (traverses area). This section is free from colored or foreign element and the usual detrimental physical aspects. Pride of ownership is highly evident and desirability of area should improve with complete installation of utilities (sewer not available to most of area). This is a good, clean, restricted section.
Business men, clerks and laborers - medium income This area, originally overplatted due to control of the Keenan interests (speculative builders) in Highland View, is a good, clean, restricted neighborhood, but was laid out in 1917-22 covering 200 acres when 60 acres would have been sufficient. As a result, although improvements are in the majority well built and well kept, the area (north part) suffers from overexpansion (no gas liners north of Pierce and Franklin Avenues; built up 35-40%; 25% streets paved, balance well graded and cindered). Another factor which seriously affected this section was the discontinuance of the Cleveland & SW and Youngstown-Warren interurban lines and removal of their shops here in 1925-26. Approximately 300 families were left unemployed. Although average lot frontage is 45 feet, the southeast part of area (containing much better homes) has 60 foot front lots, paved streets and all utilities except gas. Transportation is fair and area is convenient to stores, schools and churches. Foreclosures have been heavy (along Katherine Avenue). It was reported that approximately 30 homes built in 1928-1929 on this avenue with financing by the Ashland Savings and Loan Company were almost all acquired through default to that Association. Opinion of examiner is that area is slowly declining and property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value.
Business men, clerks and white collared The subject area is a clean well kept district platted in 1913 and known as The Schiller Allotment; average lot frontage, 50 feet; built up, 25%; transportation good; utilities all installed; school facilities, good (Cuyahoga Falls High School here); stores and churches convenient; streets paved 10% (balance well graded and cindered). Area suffers from volume of "For Sale" signs and in some instances appear to be caused by forced liquidation - special assessments on vacant lots (approximately 1000) remain mostly unpaid and constitute a city problem. Foreclosures are heavy in northern part of area (this part also suffers from back-up difficulty with sewers - swamp is located at northern edge of area). However, area throughout, because of improvements and lack of usual detrimental influences, warrants a fair blue rating. Property, if acquired, should be sold for a fair value.
People of moderate means and laborers Two small sections Italian American born This area, free from detrimental influences, surrounds one-half of the most desirable residential section of Cuyahoga Falls. Improvements are uniform, though on comparatively small lots, and owner occupancy is high. Area is described as follows: built up 35%; transportation good; schools, churches and stores convenient; 20% streets paved (balance well graded and cindered); Gorge Park abutts south end of area. The better homes are located along Portage Trail, Third St., Fourth St., and May Avenue (older homes on Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Streets vary considerably in price range). The northwestern part of this area is mostly vacant but due to restrictions will continue to remain fairly desirable when normal building is resumed. A good class of Italians occupy the southernmost part of area. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Broad Street, Front Street and Portage trail. This area should maintain its present level for several years and property, if acquired, should be sold for a fair price.
Laborers and a few office employees American This section (northern half-old) is gradually shrinking in desirability but proximity to downtown business center, 65% owner-occupancy, and better homes on High, Curtis, School Streets and part of Tallmadge Avenue will retain the district's present level for the next few years. This section has no detrimental influences such as Foreign or Negro occupancy but is partially affected (western border) by smoke and dirt from nearby Pennsylvania and B&O Railroads, Southern part of area, is only sparsely built; 7% of streets paved, balance well cindered homes of cheaper construction. Area was developed about 50 years ago but residential trend continued westward on other side of railroad. This district surrounds Searle Horst Golf Course and lies on a plateau approximately 50 feet higher than adjacent "Yellow Area" containing the Cuyahoga River, small industries and railroads. Transportation good; school facilities poor (only school recently condemned - this increased sales resistance.)
Office men and white collared This district was laid out in 50 foot front lots in 1925 and is now approximately 20% built up with homes ranging from $3000-7000. Sections of this territory, eastern part fronting on Hawkins Avenue and southern part bordering Municipal Golf Course, lie slightly higher than balance of area (reclaimed from Copley Swamp by construction of large running sewer along North Hawkins Avenue to Sand Run Creek in 1927). However there are many spots in north central part where the surface remains soft. All utilities installed; 10% streets paved, convenient to schools and community stores. Vehicular traffic is heavy on Hawkins Avenue. The more expensive homes are located on Seudder and Auten Avenues. Progress in this area will be slow for a few years until proper drainage has occurred. However, due to general excellence of surrounding areas this neighborhood will retain its present level and possibly improve. Property, is acquired, should be sold for fair value.
Business men, merchants and office workers Very light infiltration of Hungarians and Italians along west and on Grand and Delia Avenues. This area (eastern end developed in 1908) is still very desirable but trend along W. Market Street (NE border of area) is to high-class apartments and stores; balance of area is zoned residential. Large old expensive homes are principally located on and close to W. Market Street through many are principally located on and close to W. Market Street though many are scattered throughout district (some of these are in form of minor estates). Western part was developed in 1920 and whole area is now 95% built up; excellent streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and stores. The terrain slopes gently toward the downtown district; lots average 50-ft frontage (excluding the minor estates). Vehicular traffic is very heavy on W. Market Street and W. Exchange Street (city's main EW thoroughfares) and heavy on Portage Path and Maison Avenue (area's main NS thoroughfares). Trend of area will remain static during new few years but area is almost fully built up and slow decline will set in. Property should bring a fair price.
Professional and business men Formerly infiltration of high class Jewish Until about 15 years ago this was one of the best residential sections in Akron and is now almost fully built up. Homes are well-kept; average lot frontage 50 feet; convenient to schools, stores, and churches; streets paved - 90% (streets abutting Akron-Canton and Youngstown railroad are cindered or graveled). Northwest corner of area is within one-half block of the exclusive Portage Country Club and Golf Course; a row of high rent apartments is located on Portage Avenue (also in this part). Expensive homes are scattered through area (example - home of P.W. Litchfield, President Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company). Beginning in late 1929 a gradual influx of high type Jewish occurred in this area, flowing NW on Merriman Road; sharp bargaining tended to drive down higher bracket prices and has affected recovery of area. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on W. Market Street and Portage Path, and fairly heavy on Merriman Road. Property, if acquired, should be sold for a fair price.
Office workers and white collared employers Italian Slow infiltration of Italians from Area C-8 The subject area consists of several small allotments (the earliest platted about 1910) and is now almost fully built up. The average lot frontage is 45 feet; streets paved - 90% (many have shade trees); transportation - good; convenient to schools, stores, and churches. Northern part borders south and east boundaries of desirable "Green" area and in conjunction abutts one of Akron's large metropolitan parks. On the whole, area consists of the more desirable older part of "North Hill", is well maintained and pride of ownership is more evident than in surrounding "Yellow" neighborhoods. Italian and other foreign infiltration is slowly occurring into southern part of area. Property, if acquired, should be sold at fair value.
Office workers and laborers - This area centers around the district at Stow Corners occupied in the north part by Stow Corner home sites; on the east by Liberty Park Allotment and on the south by the Hollywood Allotment. This section was laid out in 1917 and is now 35 per cent built up. Average lot front 40 feet. Prices range from $1500-$4500 with the better and more expensive homes in the southwestern part of area. Thirty five (35) per cent of streets are paved; remainder, cindered; fair transportation; good school facilities. Outlying section. The cheapest homes in this area are located in the extreme northeast corner north of Bath-Stow Road. Trend is static to slightly upward. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Rubber workers Greeks, Hungarians, & Italians of mixed nationalities This allotment was laid out in 1920. Now 50% built up. Two story homes are located along Eastland Avenue. There is a small concentration of cheap cottages at the extreme northeast corner. Average price of bungalow - $2500; average price of 2 story homes $4200. 25% of streets are paved; remainder cindered and graded. A city park is located in the southeast portion of this area. Very good transportation; school and church facilities; rolling terrain. Heavy vehicular traffic along Eastland Avenue, Brittain Road and E. North Street. About 12 new houses erected in this area last year. Southeast portion of this area is located in Goodyear Heights Addition. Should maintain its present level for some time. 80% of the houses located in entire area are of single construction. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value.
White collared and rubber workers Occupants are American Laid out in about 1916 and known as the L.A. Young Allotment. This is a very level area consisting of 50-foot lots - not over 40% built up. Price range from $1500-3500; all single construction, 80% of the homes are of one-story cottage type. All utilities installed excepting southwest portion of area which has no water or sewers (installation of these is contemplated shortly). This was swamp land at one time but now tiled and drained; non-restricted area. Five new homes were built here last year. Very heavy traffic on Hawkins Avenue. Convenient to Copley Road school. Fair transportation. Occupants are American of the working class. Area will remain fairly static during the next 5-10 years. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value.
Rubber workers and white collared All types Slow infiltration of mixed foreign element toward south end This is one of the oldest residential districts in Akron - 98% built up. Adjoins on the west side of the downtown business district and surrounds three-fourths of the Goodrich Tire and Rubber Company. Area consists of the old type 1 -2 story frame dwellings. Store fronts and small businesses all along on West Market and West Exchange Streets. Several apartments on Ash Street Hill located on King and Parkway. Average lot front 40 and 50 feet. Excellent transportation; 10 minute walk to downtown business center. Good school and church facilities. Area is slowly undergoing a transition to small business stores and apartments. Heavy vehicular traffic along South Main, West Market, West Exchange, W. Bowery, and West Thornton Streets. Practically all houses are of single construction. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
College professors, business men and factory workers The original high class residential district in Akron. Many homes are 75 years old. Reasonable demand for homes here because of central location. Average lot front 45 feet. Homes are of the large type and of older designs. 60% of the houses are of single construction. Good transportation. Good streets. Schools and churches located in this area. Heavy vehicular traffic along East Market, E. Buchtel, Exchange and Carroll Avenues. The University of Akron is located on the west border and the city hospital in the center of area. The school has an attendance of about 2000 students and many of these rent rooms or lease homes for fraternal purposes. The College influence has helped to maintain the standard of this area. Encroachment of store fronts all along E. Market Street. A small business center is located between Kirkwood and Adolph along E. Market Street; also at the corner of Carroll and Annadale Avenues. A. C. & Y. Railroad borders on the south end of the area - properties along here affected by smoke and dirt. The Akron Farmers' Market is located on the corner of Carroll and Beaver Avenues where farm produce is sold 3 days each week. Area should continue to maintain its present level. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. Area is built up 90%.
Rubber workers All types The district is located in the south-central part of the city. Built up 85%; price range - $2000-4200; older homes in the north half of the area being the territory north of Crosier Street. Practically all construction in the deep south half took place during 1926-27-28-29. 80% of streets are paved; remainder cindered. Good transportation throughout entire area. Heavy vehicular traffic along Arlington and Brown Streets. Convenient to industry, stores and schools. Terrain is fairly level. Summer Home for the Aged and the Children's Home are located in the northeast end of the area. Store fronts all along on Arlington Avenue down to Wilbeth Road. A cluster of stores at the corner of Beaver and Johnson Avenue. North half of area (oldest section) is affected by smoke from the B. F. Goodrich Rubber Company and railroads. Foreign element is concentrated in the north half. The entire district, because of its convenient location to transportation and industries should not decline a great deal during the next 10 years. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. 70% of buildings are of single construction.
Rubber workers and factory employees Various Heavy settlements of West Virginians (hillbilly type) in districts lying north of municipal airport This allotment was laid out since 1920. Now 30% built up; prices range from $1000-4000. Average lot front 45 feet; 20% of streets paved; remainder cindered or graded. Section of area lying east of Alpha Street and south of Triplett Boulevard has no sewer, gas or water; all utilities in rest of area. Generally fair transportation. Fair school facilities and fairly convenient to stores. Municipal Airport and Zeppelin Airdock located immediately south of this area. Robinson Clay Product Company, the Goodyear and the Mohawk Tire and Rubber Companies are located in the northwest section. Springfield Lake borders on the south. A mild sprinkling of cheaper homes and shacks scattered throughout the eastern portion of area lying east of Canton Road. Heavy traffic along the Akron-Canton Road (E. Market Street Ext), Massillon Road (Arlington Street Ext), Triplett Boulevard, and Waterloo Road. North central part of area affected by smoke from the tire company plants. On the whole, the area will probably remain static with possible slight improvement. Some 25 houses ranging in price of $1000 (shacks) to $4000 were erected in the area during the past year. Property, if acquired, should be sold for a reasonable offer. 90% of the buildings are of single construction.
Office and factory workers Known as Wagner-Emmons subdivision; this section was laid out in 1918; built up 50%; average lot 40x150; homes range in price from $2000-$3500; 25% of streets are paved; remainder, cindered and graded. Fairly good transportation. Good school facilities. Small stores are centered at corner of Albrecht and Canton Road. Terrain is level with slight slope to the south. Clean neighborhood; houses are well kept. This is one of the newer outlying districts, fairly free from the usual detrimental influences. No foreign or negro element. 90% of the buildings are of single construction. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair market price.
White collared and business men This section is known as Peterborough and was laid out by Leona Peters in 1927; lies southwest of Springfield and is now 20% built up with an average lot front of 50 feet. Homes range in price from $4000-5500; the houses are of double construction. Fair school facilities; fair transportation; outlying neighborhood; no utilities except electricity. Trend will remain static. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Laborers This area is known as the Peerless Allotment and was laid out by Jacob Nahr in 1916; lies southeast of Springfield Lake; now 20% built up; average lot front 50 feet. Fair school facilities; fair transportation. Price range of homes $1000-3000. 10% of streets are paved; remainder cindered. Outlying community; no utilities except electricity. Trend will probably remain static; practically all homes in area are of single construction. Property if acquired, should be sold for fair offer.
Laborers - factory workers Mixed This is one of the newer districts developed about 1920. The most substantial homes are located in the northeast section along East Avenue; average lot front 50 feet; built up 40%; good transportation. Fairly convenient to schools. Northwest portion is nearly all vacant. About 20 new homes are under construction in the north end along Morse Avenue; these homes are of the cheap type, costing about $2250 and consisting of 4 rooms. Area is not restricted. Homes located in the northern section along East Avenue range in price from $3000-4500; while in the southern section they will average about $2000 since nearly all improvements consists of bungalows and small cottages. 90% of the homes in the entire area are of single construction. Very few paved streets. Passage on outlying unpaved streets is very difficult in bad weather. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Rural residents - This area consists mostly of open fields and was platted about 15 years ago. Though only 7 per cent built up, improvements consist of small bungalows and very cheap homes and considering the following indicate a static to downward trend for this third class "Yellow" area: Outlying section, streets unpaved; no utilities except electricity, lack of adequate fire protection, low income bracket occupants, relief roll heavy, rental collections difficult, population slightly decreasing. Property owned in this section should be sold for a reasonable offer.
Factory workers Hungarian Slow infiltration of Hungarians This district was laid out about 1910 and is 60% built up. A concentration of 2-story houses is located in the southwest section along Wingate and Corey Aves, built about 1920, and average about $3500. The rest of the area is sprinkled with small cottages and bungalows. These range in price of $2500. Practically all cindered streets excepting Waterloo Road which is the main artery and heavily traveled. Transportation is good excepting in the Wingate-Corey district. Accessibility to west end of area was improved by the construction of a bridge at 27th Street and Kenmore Boulevard. Western part is within reasonable distance to schools, churches and to the Palmer Match Company and Wright Tool Company. About 20 new homes constructed during past year in the Wingate-Corey district. The area is located midway between Akron and Barberton and within short distance to large industries. The eastern part of this area is low reclaimed vacant swamp land. Nesmith Lake located in area provides swimming, fishing and recreation. The area should maintain its present level with a possibility of slight improvement. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. 90% of the houses are of single construction.
Factory workers Slovaks and others This section was laid out in 1919-1920; now 45% built up; price range of homes $1500-3000; 20% of streets are paved; remainder graveled. Average lot front 40 feet; good transportation; good school, church and store facilities. Section lying north of Wooster Road has all utilities; limited utilities as to balance of area. North part of area east of railroad detrimentally affected by strata sandstone close to surface. Traffic is very heavy on Wooster Road (Akron East Avenue Extension), North and State Street. Erie Railroad and Tuscarawas River pass through center of area. Properties adjoining railroad are affected by smoke and dirt. On the whole, the area should hold its own for next 5-10 years. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. 90% of houses are of single construction.
White collared and business men Slovaks This is the oldest section of Barberton. Practically fully built up. Consists largely of 2 story one family frame dwellings of the older type. All paved streets. Very good transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Abutts district along Second Street and Tuscarawas Avenue West. Surrounds beautiful Lake Anna which provides good bathing facilities. Abutts industry on the south and west. Very heavy vehicular traffic along Tuscarawas Avenue and Second Street. Level terrain. Price range of homes $2000-3500. Area will remain fairly static for few years at least. Property, if acquired, should not be sacrificed. 70% of the houses are of single construction. Rather smoky district because of proximity to several industries and railroads.
Factory Workers Slovaks Fairly heavy infiltration of Slavish This section, known as the "Johnson's Corners" district, was platted about 1916; now 50% built up, with 20% of its streets paved and the remainder graveled. Transportation is good through center of area west along Wooster Road, but only fair through balance of district. Vehicular traffic is very heavy on Wooster Road and Massillon Road. This section is convenient to industry, schools, churches, and stores (retail stores and shops clustered along Wooster Road West). The foreign element is concentrated generally in the north half (oldest) part of the area; (Erie Railroad traverses here). The part of this area immediately south of Columbia Lake contains a heavy sprinkling of shacks ranging in price from $700-$1200. Due to proximity of employment (nearby Columbia Chemical Co. & Pittsburgh Valve Company) this area should hold its own for several years and improve slightly in the southern part (only limited utilities now available south of Wooster Road). The average lot frontage in this area is 40 feet - improvements are practically all of single construction. Property, if acquired, should not be sacrificed.
Laborers Mixed This section was laid out in 1917; now 40% built up; average lot front 40 feet. However, the north portion of the area, lying immediately north of Portage Lake Avenue, known as the "Lake View Heights" Allotment was originally laid out in 20 foot front lots, but the purchasers in each instance bought at least two lots for each improvement. The southeast portion consists of cottages and a fair sprinkling of shacks. This particular section is known as the "Cottage Grove Allotment." The best residential section of this area is in that part lying south of Portage Lake Avenue on the water front of East Reservoir. Limited utilities; the entire area has fair transportation and school facilities. Homes range in price from $1000-5000. About 80% of homes are of single construction. The doubly constructed homes are located along Main Street just south of Portage Lake Avenue. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
Factory workers, clerks and a few merchants - Better class moving to West Side Industrial section along river, railroad tracks, coal yards, etc. Some cheap homes and a few very good old residences scattered throughout the area. Necessary to cross railroad tracks and river bridges to reach business section, schools, and churches. Fifty percent of streets paved; good transportation; built up 60%; surrounds industries and main business section; shacks along south end of area. Heavy vehicular traffic along Front, Broad, Talmadge and Portage Trail; properties abutting railroad and industries lying south of Broad Street all the way to Taylor Street suffer from smoke, dirt, and noise. That portion of the area lying south of Munroe Falls Avenue all the way to Taylor Street (south) will hold up best because it abutts the business and industrial sections of the city. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value.
Factory and some white-collared workers - - This area was laid out about 12 years ago and is approximately 15% built up. Lack of restrictions caused erection of small cheap homes and this development was barely under way when depression set in; consequently, area has but 8 short streets with exception of main arteries Howe Street and Magnolia Avenue. However, due to favorable location (abutts south side of Area B-5 and includes Breathnack Golf Course) this newer section although cheap should improve with time or at least hold its own.
Rubber workers Italians Very light foreign infiltration This area was laid out about 1900; price range of properties from $1500-5000. Built up 75%; lot size 40x110; paved streets; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores; fairly level terrain. Reasonably clean neighborhood desirable to rubber workers. Evidence of pride of ownership. Very heavy vehicular traffic along Cuyahoga Falls Avenue. Should retain its present level for several years. Generally free from the usual detrimental influences. Only 3 negro families located in entire area and these are better type colored and own their own homes. A few cheaper homes are interspersed throughout the area. Property, if acquired, should have a reasonably good sale value. 90% of homes in this area are of single construction. About 20 homes were built here last year - these ranged around $3000 each.
Rubber workers and laborers Italian Very light foreign infiltration Area was laid out 1910; price range of homes $1000-2500. Unrestricted. Homes are 100% single construction; average lot 45x150; no paved streets excepting Home Avenue which has heavy vehicular traffic. Poor transportation; convenient to schools. Encroachment of small business on Home Avenue, which runs through the center of this area. Despite the cheapness of homes, the area is kept fairly clean and in fair demand by the small income earner. Twenty five per cent of area is built up. No serious changes in area in the future. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. Area is accorded a weak third grade (Yellow) rating. Practically all homes are of single construction.
Business men and white collared - The newer residential part of the Village of Tallmadge lies north of Fenway Drive and west of Nottingham Street and was first developed about 25 years ago. The balance of the Village, founded about 100 years ago consists of cheap commercial buildings and old homes surrounding the town circle created by the intersection of three highways: the Akron-Youngstown, Akron-Kent, and Akron Stow Roads. The newest section of this area, lying east of Stow Road contains the better homes ranging from $5000-6000. The part of this area west of Nottingham Street is the cheaper new section and consists mostly of homes valued at $1500. North of Woodward Avenue, this area is sparsely built up. Overdale and Overlook Avenues are paved; remainder of streets cindered; generally all utilities except gas. Good school facilities, close to business section of Tallmadge. Trend is static with possibility of improvement. 75% of homes are of single construction; the houses located east of Stow and North of Kent Roads are of double construction. Property, if acquired, should not be sacrificed.
Factory laborers Italian Fair infiltration of Italians from Area D-2 This section of "North Hill" lies along the edge of the plateau overlooking the Cuyahoga River Valley. The east part was formerly known as Forest Hill, laid out by Lauer and Young in 1917; homes in this eastern part are more or less uniform and prices at about $3000. Heavy traffic of the east portion of area is on Glenwood Avenue and Dan Street. Hollibaugh Avenue is zoned for business. 75% of the homes on the west side of area are of the 2-story type and the rest range from cottages to shacks. 70% of streets are paved; 30% cindered; average lots from 40 feet. Good transportation; good school facilities. Close to down-town business center. Trend is static. Should remain pretty much at the same level for a period of ten years. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. 95% of homes are of single construction. Area is 65% built up.
Factory workers employed in Sulphur Plant Allotment laid out about 1915; 20% built up; Tallmadge Avenue is paved; rest of streets in area are cindered; average front lot 40 feet. Reasonable distance to schools, churches; homes range from $600-3500. 95% of homes are of single construction. Lack of attention to the regularity of buildings constructed in this area is the chief deterrent to growth. Interspersed with a sprinkling of shacks (20%). This allotment has no restrictions. Hourly bus transportation. Very heavy vehicular traffic along West Tallmadge Avenue. Will probably remain "as is" for some time. In certain portions it is difficult to excavate basements because of sandstone rock foundation. Elevation of this area is one of the highest in Akron, but still subject to noise, smoke and dirt from adjacent Baltimore and Ohio and Erie railroads due to prevailing northeast winds from the valley.
Common laborers Italian Heavy settlement of Italians This section was laid out in about 1900. Built up 50%; average lot front, 40 feet; 40 foot streets; 50% streets paved, balance cindered or graded. Good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Heavy vehicular traffic along Cuyahoga Street. Buildings on this artery are older and in poorer state of repair than in the balance of this area. "Jerry" building predominates in west end of section. Heavy foreign occupancy (Italian predominating) slowly increasing; colored infiltration negligible. Property values in northern part of area affected by odors of nearby Akron Soap Works. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. Homes are generally of single construction.
Common laborers Miscellaneous of lower income group This area, known as the older part of Lakemore, borders the southern shore of Springfield Lake and lies just outside the southeastern city limits of Akron. No paved streets. No utilities excepting electricity. Slightly better type homes fronting the Lake such as summer cottages, etc., gas is available to the properties bordering the lake front. 80% built up. Influx of lower income group; very poor repair. No sewage system. Decided evidence of lack up upkeep; narrow unimproved streets; very narrow lots; outlying and isolated. Very shoddy construction; inadequate fire and police protection; rural schools and churches; vandalism high in cases of vacant houses. Low living standards. Property, if acquired, should be disposed of at any price. There are about 8 houses in the Mount View district ranging in price up to $2500
Common laborers Slovak Heavy foreign settlement This section is about 35 years old; built up 65%; 75% of streets are paved - 25% graveled and cindered. Average lot front 40 feet; good transportation; within easy walking distance to downtown business center. Heavy traffic along Wooster Road and Hopocan Street; houses range in price of $1200 - 2500; mostly in poor state of repair; area is generally run down. Colored occupancy centered along Brown and Van Streets. This is a slowly declining neighborhood. Practically all houses in this area are of cheap single construction.
Common labor Slavis Negro - fairly rapid This section is known as "Snydertown"; laid out about 1916; now 35% built up; houses range in price of $300 - 1500; consists chiefly of shacks. This is the cheapest residential neighborhood in Barberton. Income of occupants is very low and unstable. Inadequate facilities for sewage disposal. No utilities in area except water and electricity. Public school between Bell and Van Buren Streets. Unemployment and relief rolls are very heavy; about 20% of streets are paved. This area is rapidly declining and property, if acquired, should be sold for any reasonable offer.
Factory workers and common laborers of lower income group An allotment of shacks; poor streets; no sewer; type of home owners are of low income class. An isolated section east of the city proper. 10% of area is built up. This is the poorest section in Cuyahoga Falls. No public utilities except water on one street. Very long distance to schools, churches and stores. Generally speaking, the area suffers from: lack of adequate fire protection; instability income of area's occupants; difficulty of rental collections; low standards of living and in general gives every evidence of a rapid downward trend. Relief load is heavy. Property, if acquired, should be sold for any reasonable offer.
"Laborers Italian and others Heavy settlement of colored, Italians and other nationalities This area, known as Cuyahoga Valley Section, was platted about 60 years ago; retrogressed with age although northwestern part remained fair residential until this area was severely damaged by flood in 1913. However, death blow to desirability of this area was the complete diversion of N. Howard Street traffic by construction of the North Main Street Viaduct over this entire section in 1926.
Built up 80% at least. Average lot front 40 feet. Paved streets; good transportation. Convenient to schools and within walking distance to downtown business section. Elizabeth Park and Fountain Park are located in this area. Traversed by two railroads and Little Cuyahoga River. Shoddy construction, poor repair. Area on the whole suffers from a general run-down condition and bad reputation. Red-light district located on North, Ridge, Lods, Furnace and Spring Streets. Area is heavily populated by foreign-born and colored. Low standard of living; high concentration of undesirable element. (4 policemen killed here in 1918). Only property selling is that for light commercial and warehouse purposes.
Property, if acquired, should be sold at once. Central portion beginning at hub of Spring Street and N. Howard is known as Akron's main slum concentration.
"
"Laborers and gardeners Hungarian of Hungarian people This section, known as Shantytown, lies west of the Akron city limits and is comprised of small cottages and shacks ranging in price from $300 - 1800. A small number of occupants have home-made hot beds and greenhouses and derive their livelihood from this source. Soil consists of rich muck suitable for gardening. No paved streets. No utilities except electricity. Considerable distance to school; one mile to bus line on Copley. Akron Belt Line and Copley swamp ditch traverses through area. Four negro families on Columbus Avenue; fertility of soil and cheapness of lot prices (lots at $50 - 75) is main attraction to purchasers with meager earning power. Trend is static.
Property, if acquired, should be sold for any reasonable offer. Area is built up 10%.
"
"Rubber workers and laborers Predominantly Jewish of colored - fairly rapid Laid out about 1905; known as main Jewish shopping district; paved streets; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and stores; located just south of Perkins Park; level terrain. Most of the area lying south of Bartges Street has soft foundation due to nearby Summit Lake (southern boundary).
Homes located on Norka, Raymond and the south end Snyder, Scheck, Metzger and Bowery Street are out of "plumb" owing to the shifting foundation. Heavy traffic along Wooster Avenue, Thornton and Bowery Streets. District affected by odors, smoke, and dirt from nearby Goodrich Rubber Company plant. Acquired property if not sold immediately will suffer from vandalism.
Declining district, heavily populated by low class Jews - all stores on Wooster Avenue (traversing artery) are Jewish-owned. Present heavy negro encroachment gradually increasing.
"
"Rubber workers and common laborers Mixed Slow infiltration of colored Laid out about 1880. Built up 85%; all paved streets; good transportation; good school facilities; walking distance to downtown business center; near industry; average lot frontage - 40 feet; level to rolling terrain. Central eastern part once was known as "Hell's Kitchen," central southern part is known as "Little Italy," and figured heavily in liquor traffic during Prohibition. Main traffic arteries (NS) High, Washington and Grant Streets, (EW) Stanton, Miller, and Thornton Avenues. Entire area is detrimentally affected by smoke, dirt, noise and odors from railroads and rubber factories.
A small vice district is centered in the north end of area along Chestnut Alley and Halstead Street. The colored people are scattered throughout. Entire area is badly in need of paint and repair. Homes in the south end of the district are kept up better. Declining but not rapidly.
Property, if acquired, should be sold for reasonable offer. Practically all homes located in this area are of single construction.
"
"Factory workers and servant, colored predominating Settlement of better type colored (servant class) One of Akron's oldest residential districts. Convenience in location to industry and downtown retail center makes it attractive to lower income group. Akron University is located here. (Present school attendance 1500 - 2000 students).
All paved streets; good transportation; convenient to Akron University, Central High School, grade schools, churches and stores. Fully 65% built up. Average lot front 40 feet; level terrain. Heavy traffic along Carroll Street. Colored influx appears to be static. Colored residential area of the better type and own their own homes. The majority of the colored are located on Scott Avenue and James Street. Area should retain its present level for several years.
Property values here are better than in any of the other "Red" areas. Vacant land fronting on railroad was original site of International Harvester Company now located in Chicago. This land has been proposed as location for new railroad Terminal although prospect of construction in near future is remote.
Property, if acquired, should not be sacrificed.
"
"Factory workers and laborers Slavish-Italian of foreigners: negro population, decreasing The very oldest section in the city, formerly known as Middlebury, Ohio. Built up 75%; average lot front - 40 feet. Paved streets; good transportation; fair school facilities; hilly terrain. Heavy vehicular traffic along Eastland, Newton and Case Avenues. Two lumber yards located in center of area. Smoke, dirt, and noise from railroads; lack of upkeep; area has general appearance of a declining district. Colored population (15%) is scattered throughout entire district. Homes located in southeast end of area are kept up better. Case Avenue has completely changed to commercial and light manufacture. On the whole, it is declining area.
Property, if acquired, should be sold. Practically all homes are of single construction.
"
"Factory workers Hungarian Heavy settlement of Hungarian Laid out in 1915 and known as The Hannah S. Allyn Allotment; lots, 40x120; built up 80%; 80% of streets are paved; remainder cindered or graveled. Good transportation; good school facilities; near to stores, shopping; located midway between Goodrich and Goodyear factories. Level terrain.
Heavy traffic along Brown Street. Colored population (15%) scattered throughout entire area. Neighborhood should retain its present level for next 10 yrs.
Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
90% of the homes in this area are of the single construction. Large clay pit, kilns and tile works border most of the western end of this section. Traversed by belt line railroad in west part. Main arteries are (NS) Brown Street., (EW) Crosier, Morgan and McKinley.
"
"Factory workers Hungarian Heavy settlement of Hungarian population Built up 80%; average lot frontage - 40 feet; 75% of streets paved - remainder cindered or graveled; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores; within walking distance to industry; fairly level terrain.
Colored population (15%) scattered throughout area; the small section lying east of Kelly Avenue is poorest in area. Affected by smoke, noise, and dirt from railroads. Balance of area should retain its present level for a few years at least.
Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. 90% of the homes in this area are of single construction.
"
Business men and professional This attractive partly wooded first grade residential section is located on the northwestern boundary of Cuyahoga County fronting on Lake Erie. Particular asset of this area, lying on both sides of adjoining parks, is the drawing power of its desirable beach facilities (lake frontage on the western half of the County is largely without beach facilities being situated on generally abrupt elevation overlooking the lake in the cities of Rocky River and Lakewood). This clean neighborhood was platted in 1925 and is now 25% built up with uniform single residences that reflect strong pride of ownership. All streets are concrete with complete installation of utilities. Fifteen new homes were constructed here during the past 12 months. Good restrictions will hold this area's attractiveness to professional and business men, but future growth will be fairly slow due to the outlying location and weak transportation service (hourly bus). Note: electrified railroad shown on map has been discontinued, roadbed and tracks removed.
Executives - Professional - Business men This area is known as the Clifton Park Addition; that portion of the area lying east of Webb Rd. was laid out over 30 years ago; a very beautiful, well wooded area, facing Lake Erie and abutting Rocky River on the west. Fino winding streets; very wide lots. Fairly level topography. Away from heavy vehicular traffic and free from detrimental influences; a beautiful area with a park-like appearance; homes set 75 ft. from road. Most exclusive residential section in Lakewood; excellent beach facilities - bath house - life guards. The larger and more expensive homes (including some estates) are located along Edgewater, Forest Cliff, Erie Cliff, Maple Cliff and Kenneth Drive facing the lake. That portion lying west of Webb Rd. is newer and price range here is from $15,000 to $25,000; five new homes were built in this section during the past 12 months. One hundred percent high type residential and will remain so for several years to come. The area is accorded a good first grade rating.
Professional, Business men This nicely wooded section, facing Lake Erie and situated immediately west of Lakewood Park was platted 22 years ago. It is now 80% built up; good streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches and shopping centers and within reasonably short distance to the Cleveland Public Square. Restrictions are by deed and zoning ordinance; lots 40x120 ft. with a few 45's; all single homes in the price range $8000-$10,000 with an average age of 10-12 yrs., with the exception of the homes on Summit Ave. which are much older. Properties represent a good type of development considering size of lots; a clean and well kept community with no vacancies and a very high owner-occupancy ratio; highly desirable to the professional and business men of average means. A fairly well settled community and free from foreign infiltration. Prices will remain firm for many years. This area's very favorable future is based on the fact that new construction has been more expensive than existing homes and area is one of the few high grade sections in Lakewood with room for future development.
Executive - Professional - Retired capitalists Situated in the northeastern part of Lakewood, Ohio. This section is in the highest requirement of the Lakewood zoning district and is being carefully administered; average lot front 60-80 feet; approximately 90% built up; distinct uniformity of homes; price range $15,000-25,000; a few estates, such as the Crider, Kuntz and Hutchinson's (located between Cove and Nicholson on Edgewater Drive), range around $65,000. New construction has been in line with existing type of homes; six new homes along Estill Drive; four on south side of Edgewater Drive. Newer homes along Parkside, Wilbort, Estill and Edgewater Drive west of Parkside. Area faces Lake Erie; beach facilities are limited due to cliff - (accessible by stairway). Fine streets - shade trees - very good transportation and utilities; fairly convenient to schools, churches and community stores. High type residents - homes and land surroundings very well kept; free from any detrimental influences. Probability of subdivision of some of the large estates (between Cove and Nicholson) should "freshen" real estate activity in the entire area. No decline in prices since 1937 - if anything, prices have "stiffened" a little. Area should continue to maintain its present high standard for several years. A high grade first class area.
Professional and Business men - This small first grade residential area is located in the eastern end of Lakewood just south of Lake Ave. Platted 15-18 years ago it is now 80% built up; all utilities in, very convenient to schools, churches and shopping centers and within short distance of Cleveland Public Square; restricted to one-family dwellings by deed and zoning ordinance, with the exception of Hathaway Ave. where some two-family homes have been constructed. The larger and older homes are along Manor Park (west border of area); lots 50x250 ft.; homes are set well back from street. Area will retain its present level of desirability for the next 5-10 years at least.
Salaried employees - Small business men - Some professional American community This fast growing new residential area was taken up about three years ago and accelerated to the point where there are now 12 to 15 contractors actively engaged in constructing homes for the speculative market. At present almost 30 homes are under construction. Sales in this area have been satisfactory and values of older homes previously built here, principally along Dellbank, Brookside and Plainfield, have risen considerably in value. About 8 to 10 two-family homes are located in area. Lots range from 40-60 ft. frontage and average 120-150 ft. depth. Land value averages from $20 per front foot on unpaved streets to $30 per front foot on paved streets. Only 4 streets are unpaved in this area - W. 58th, W. 59th, W. 60th and W. 62nd (one being paved now). All utilities are available; area's outlet to downtown section is along W. 73rd (bus line) and Brookside Blvd. through abutting second grade area to Fulton Rd. Northern portion of area is rolling and scenic - contains larger plots and more expensive homes of brick construction, a few ranging as high in value as $10,000-$15,000. Development, although rapid, appears to be proceeding no faster than demand and future of area appears very favorable.
Business men - Professional - White-collared Occupants of new homes - high type This level to gently rolling area, located along Schaaf Road east of Broadview Ave. and known as South Hills Development, was platted in 1920-22. Lots here are 50' front with a few 40' lots in northwest corner; all utilities in, including street paving; street car transportation on Broadview and close to schools, churches and stores. The area is 65% developed with 1 1/2 and 2 1/2-story single residences (not over 12 two-family dwellings in entire area) ranging in price all the way from $5500 to $20,000. The wide price-spread is accounted for in that the area grew "sectionally". The finer and most expensive homes ($15,000-20,000) are located along South Hills Blvd., while the older and cheapest properties are found along Alvin and Maynard Aves. south of Schaaf Rd. and on Saratoga, Cypress and Hillcrest Aves. in the northwest corner of area. New development (within past 2 years) was on W. 15th St. along the easterly boundary of area. Some 25-30 homes were erected in this section during the past 12 months. Prices are holding strong with an upward tendency in the lower price bracket homes. The area, although somewhat isolated from other first grade areas in Cleveland, seems to have a long life ahead. The weaker spots referred to herein will be amply supported by the highly desirable South Hills Blvd. section. New occupants are of high type.
White-collared - Merchants - Professional - Executives This is the "best" residential section in Parma. Area consists of four allotments and generally referred to as the Eureka Park Section. Terrain, level to slightly rolling; (surrounded by more hilly land). Bordered on the west by Metropolitan Park System. The area is 40% built up; 80-90% streets paved; no street lights; (street lamps in Parma located only along main thoroughfares); average lot 80 ft.x150 ft.; fine winding roads; well wooded area; beautiful spring-fed lake located in northeast part; landscaping and shrubbery. Good restrictions; (former restrictions minimum $15,000).. The more expensive homes ($15,000-$25,000) were built 10-12 years ago; newer homes in bracket $7500-9500. Good activity on W. Moreland, Evergreen Drive and Oakdale. Trend is noticeably upward. The respread of heavy assessments (city only) in 1937 over a thirty year period stimulated real estate activity. Heavy vehicular traffic on Snow Road; area is dependent upon bus service for transportation. Free from the common detrimental influences.
Office executives - White-collared This area is known as Eureka Park Subdivision #4; a small area with fine winding streets; average lot front 60 ft.; surrounded by trees and westerly border of area connects with Metropolitan Park; all utilities installed. No vacancies; no two-family or apartments; no rentals; 2 new homes on Halycon in line with present type. Twelve "Permanesque" (i.e. cellarless houses) built on Notabene Drive in 1924-1925 by Dan Loftus; bus transportation on Pearl Rd. (along easterly border of area); free from all detrimental influences with the exception of heavy vehicular traffic on Pearl Rd.; convenient to schools and neighborhood stores. A fine clean neighborhood where pride of ownership is highly evident. Market activity, quiet since depression - now much better; favorable future trend. The area is given a good first grade rating.
Business men - Junior executive - White-collared This area, known as H. A. Stahl's Ridgewood #1 Allotment, was laid out 19 years ago. 90% streets paved; all utilities installed; no street lights; (street lamps in Parma are located only along main thoroughfares); bus transportation; 50 ft. thoroughfares; average lot front 45 ft.; (recently allotted 100 ft. lots on Roycroft Dr.). Fairly level terrain; fine shade trees; city playground in southeastern section of area; adjoins Ridgewood County Club (semi-private) on the east; two spring-fed lakes located in area; within walking distance to schools and churches. Good restrictions; no apartments or multiple units; free from the common detrimental influences. A fine desirable neighborhood. Would have progressed very rapidly were it not for the "tax situation" peculiar to Parma (taxes respread in 1937). In view of the new construction, better home buying activity and general up-trend, the area is accorded a good first grade classification.
Managers - Merchants - Skilled mechanics - Some professional German-Czech-English This small section had its first development beginning with the dedication of streets in 1926 by the Rapid Transit Land Sales Co. later taken over by a Mr. Kleinman and recently actively developed (20 homes within past 12 mos.). Lots in this area are 40-45' wide; streets, arranged in rectangular form, are about 30% developed. Deed and zoning restrictions are rigid (price bracket $7500-$12,500) but lack of school facilities and distance to churches, shopping center and transportation (S. Moreland Blvd. Rapid Transit to the north) have resulted in considerable sales resistance, although half hour bus service may be obtained via Lee Rd. (western boundary). The major part of development to date has occurred close to Lee. Rd. and future of area appears favorable but informed realtor's opinion is that top price bracket will decrease approximately 20% with the advent of additional construction until this will become an $8000-$10,000 neighborhood. Several families, in order to avail themselves of school facilities in Shaker Hts., now pay an additional tax for this purpose. It appears this area will remain first grade for the next several years, but will suffer a slight softening in prices, although desirability, from a residential standpoint, will improve with better transportation.
Executives - Bankers - Professional - Business men of very high type desirables This area is located in the northern part of Rocky River and overlooks Lake Erie; the entire section is beautifully wooded and replete with fine shrubbery and landscaping; winding roads; homes are set back approximately 50 feet; all paved streets; all utilities; city and suburban transportation; very good restrictions; public beach owned (undivided interest) by all lot owners; this area is now 70% built up; the east end of the area is older and has been allotted some 35 years; the more expensive homes are situated along the lake front and along West Lake Rd. One or two homes as high as $150,000; the lots are from 50-100 ft. front; the cheaper homes are located along the central strip of the area and this is where most of the new construction is taking place; new construction should continue at the same or more accelerated ratio in view of the location of this area, and because it is free from the common detrimental influences. This area is given a strong first grade rating inasmuch as it will remain a very high type, desirable neighborhood.
Merchants - Professional - Junior Executives English This generally level and partly wooded exclusive residential section is the result of an advanced type of 2-family construction based on "concealed architecture" so that the community, as a whole, appears to be developed with large single homes (Van Sweringen Co. construction plan restrictions). With the exception of main thoroughfares, such as: Lomond Blvd. (70'), Scottsdale (86'), Kinsman (60'), and Lee (80'), balance of the streets are 50' wide. Lots range from 40-50' in width and are about 85% improved with soundly constructed single and camouflaged 2-family dwellings. Three streets in area (Lomond, Sherrington, & Scottsdale) are restricted to single homes, balance permit 2-family dwelling construction. Area contains one public school and transportation is via Rapid Road, also at Lynnfield & Kinsman (central-north) and at Kinsman & Center Rds. (northeast). This neighborhood has had very active construction during the past 12 months accounting for exactly 105 constructions, 10 of which are the "concealed architecture" 2-family type. Future for this desirable community, based on activity, demand and occupancy, will be very good for the next several years.
Merchants - Executives - Professional English The topography of this desirable section, first developed by the Van Sweringen Co. with dedication of streets between 1914-16, is generally flat but most attractive due to the arrangement of streets and large number of trees, particularly in the northerly portion. Most streets are 50' wide, except S. Moreland Blvd. (170') containing Rapid Transit car line. Lots range from 50-60' in width and, with the exception of some corners, are restricted to single homes; the corner lots developed with duplex dwellings. Area is approximately 85% built up - well maintained and reflects pride of ownership. One public school is located in area; shopping center is located at the intersection of Lee & Kinsman. Area has no detrimental influences and it is believed that rigid restrictions imposed by deed and zoning ordinances will maintain the present standard of area for the next several years.
Merchants - Junior Executives - Professional - Skilled Mechanics English This desirable area, rigidly restricted by the Van Sweringen Co., (except E. 128, E. 130 and Northwood) was first developed with the dedication of streets at intervals between 1912-14. Streets are 50' wide, except S. Moreland Blvd. (170'), containing Rapid Transit car line. Area has two public schools, one Non-Sectarian Church, and is convenient to complete shopping center in 2nd grade area abutting west boundary. Lots in area are mostly 60' wide and are practically 90% developed with good single homes. *An exception to this area are the parts of E. 128th, E. 130th & Northwood extending north of Woodland into Shaker Heights. (Small corner of area's NW "hook" projection) as a result of the straightening of Boundary lines with Cleveland. These three small streets, not covered by Van Sweringen Co. restrictions, are 50-50 developed with low-priced singles and 2-families (average age 30 years - price bracket $5500-$8500). Several properties in this area have been acquired through foreclosure - sales have been satisfactory. Properties in the extreme southwest part of the area are somewhat lower priced than average for area. With the exception of E. 128th, E. 130th and Northwood, the balance of area is a good first grade development reflecting strong pride of ownership and will maintain its standard for the next several years.
Executives - Professional - Some Capitalists English This exclusive neighborhood covered by rigid deed restrictions of the Van Sweringen Co. had its first development with the dedication of streets between 1911-24 and now is virtually 90% developed with fine homes. Topography of neighborhood is generally level, although the southerly portion is slightly rolling with a downward slope to the south. The winding streets are mostly 60' wide, except Shaker Blvd. - 130' wide (E.W. thoroughfare) containing Rapid Transit car line. Most lots are 100-200', although the southerly part contains many larger lots and the northerly portion many estate parcels. The part of area north of Shaker Blvd. contains most expensive homes ($25,000-$40,000 class - several estates along North Park $75,000 and up). Properties on side streets, part of area between Woodland & Shaker Blvd., are in the $17,500-$30,000 class. The portion of area south of Woodland contains fine homes in the $20,000-$30,000 bracket with a few parcels $75,000-up (on Parkland Dr.-Woodland Rd.) Considerable portion of this area is devoted to parks (several small lakes) and to the Shaker Heights Country Club. Adequate schools are available (one high school; two grade and Hathaway-Brown - private school for girls). This highly desirable area will continue to maintain its excellent standing due to rigid enforcement of strict deed and zoning restrictions - construction and sale of property subject to approval by Van Sweringen Co. This is one of the outstanding residential areas in the country.
Executive & Professional class English This excellent neighborhood is the newest part of exclusive Shaker Heights (streets dedicated 1926-29). Topography of area is fairly level, winding streets (some Blvd. type), with few exceptions, are 60' wide and lots range from 60-130' in width. Area is divided by Shaker Blvd. (600' wide) containing Rapid Transit car line (excavated below Blvd. level in this area). There are two exclusive private schools here (University - Boys; Laurel - Girls) each with an extensive campus. John Carroll University is nearby in first grade area abutting north boundary. Part of area north of Shaker Blvd. is 55% developed with large homes - market value $20,000-$60,000. Development south of Shaker Blvd. (15% built up) is less expensive ($17,000-$30,000) with a few as low as $12,500 along Almar Drive. This portion of area is expanding rapidly and accounts for virtually all of the area's new construction in the past 12 months. (27 homes). Area has no public school facilities (available in areas abutting west boundary). This condition is not considered detrimental by residents who prefer to send children to private schools. Extremely high deed and zoning restrictions (rigidly enforced) will maintain the high standard of this area and do not expire until 1999. All construction, even resale of property in this area must meet with approval of Van Sweringen Co. Future for this neighborhood is favorable.
Professional - Executives - Teachers - Business men This is the newest, fastest growing exclusive residential section on the east side of Cleveland and has gained an approximate 200% in population during the past 6 years; originally laid out about 15 years ago by the Rapid Transit Land Sales Co.; streets and utilities installed 12 years ago then taken over by the Meadowbrook-Scarborough Land Co. (Van Sweringen subsidiary). Rigid deed restrictions were then affected setting the size of foundations to lot frontage as follows: 40' lot - 28' foundation; 45' lot - 33' foundation; 50' lot - 35' foundation (depth of foundation not to exceed width.) Corner lots having 7000 sq. ft. or more of space are zoned for duplex construction but for the most part are undeveloped. The exception of Northwood and Silsby Aves. (N.W. part) from these restrictions caused the formation of a Residents' Committee about 2 years ago which now must pass on all construction plans prior to approval by the Van Sweringen Co. thus placing a second rigid test on new construction. The present active pace of construction dates back to only 1935 but has continued to gain momentum since that time. John Carroll University is located in area, and also a golf course. Proximity of this area to Hathaway-Brown (private school for girls) is a strong selling point. Area has express bus service (22 min. to downtown) but lacks store facilities which are being planned for at the intersection of Warrensville and Fairmount Blvd. (center of south boundary). Most expensive homes ($12,500-$16,500) are located principally east of Warrensville Rd. around the University grounds and also in S.W. part on Edgerton and Claridge. Future for this excellent neighborhood appears very favorable for the next 10-15 years. Five percent vacancy consists only of new constructions not yet occupied by owners or vacant-for-sale.
Executives This exclusive small estates area, abutting the Mayfield Country Club, is the development of the Lyndhurst Park Heights Co., sponsored by C.C. Bolton and Dudley Blossom, started some 15 years ago when rigid restrictions were placed on this area - it was broken into 2-5 acre parcels and carefully sold to a selected group. The extent of this development (at present, 10 homes) will, when completed in this section, total approximately 30 structures and is now progressing at approximately 2-3 homes each year (minimum cost $25,000). One home in area is worth $75,000. The butt-ending of estate parcels on Mayfield Rd. prevents detrimental influence of this thoroughfare on properties. The area's distance to stores, churches and transportation is little detriment in the eyes of this type resident; Hawkins School (private school for boys) lies immediately south of area. Future for this small community is stable and will progress slowly due to the high restrictions and expensiveness of homes. The large estates of C.C. Bolton and Dudley Blossom lie to the south of this area. Part of these estates may be opened for continuation of this area's development.
Professional - Executive - Small Business Owners Jewish Extract Increasing Jewish occupancy of upper economic bracket. This very desirable residential area consists of three parts, namely: Heaton-Pennington Subdivision, consisting of Severn, Shannon, Bendemeer and Berkely (north side only) Rds.; the Severance Estate (lying between Severn and Mayfield Rd.; and the Oak Ridge Subdivision (lying north of Mayfield Rd.) The Heaton-Pennington Subdivision was laid out about 15 years ago, development began 12 years ago, and has proceeded steadily since that time. Sales were made principally to Jewish purchasers. Lots average 45-60 ft. frontage and originally sold for $50-$55 per front foot - now bring $25-$30 per foot. This part of area is now built up approximately 30% with harmonious, well restricted home development. New homes, principally, average $12,500 in price. The Severance Estate (lying to the north of the Heaton-Pennington Subdivision) at present has but two parts developed for lot sales (north side of Severn and west side of Crest Rds.). Balance of this area has been platted but not opened for development due to the fact that utility and pavement costs, plus ground value, as a highly restricted residential section, will not bring an equitable price in the present market. Sixty foot lots held at $2450 on Severn Rd. and $1850 on Crest Rd. are not finding ready takers. The Oak Ridge section (lying north of Mayfield Rd.) is an older and more expensive development than balance of this area to the south. Original development of expensive homes ranging in value up to $80,000 have suffered severely on the sales market due to the cheaper home developments surrounding this area. Informed realtor's opinion is that no property in this section will bring more than $30,000 as evidenced by recent sales. Four of the 19 new homes (last 12 mos.) built in area were located in this Oak Ridge Section. Lots average 60'x150' frontage. New construction, in this 30% built up section, averages about $12,500 indicating that future development and values will stabilize at about this figure. No Jewish occupancy exists in the Oak Ridge section and, from best sources, it appears that future development of the Severance Estate will closely parallel its desirability with the nearby Rockefeller-Forest Hill development and the Oak Ridge section of this area.
Executive - Professional ($7500 up) American This approximately 5% built-up area is the south and east portion of the exclusive Rockefeller-Forest Hills Subdivision. Although platted in 1928, home development by Rockefeller interests was in the northwest portion lying in East Cleveland. However, in 1936 five lots along Monticello Blvd. were waived to the ARKY Homes Co. and developed with steel-concrete homes - value $24,000. These apparently were over-improvements and later were taken over by Rockefeller and sold for approximately $20,000 to $22,000. Later development in this area, principally during 1938 and first half of 1939 consisted of 15 stone and frame homes ranging in price from $12,500 to $18,500. At present 4 remain to be sold (still under construction). Construction of homes in this area is subject to approval of plans by Rockefeller architects. This area has all desirable influences; lots average 60 ft.x160 ft. - present lot sale prices approximate $2,200 (including all improvements and subterranean utilities) from street to house paid for. Proximity to commercial district and transportation along Mayfield Rd., including schools and churches is a favorable factor. With the apparent interest directed towards development of this section, desirability should be further enhanced by individual owner construction and outside development interests with general improvement in economic conditions. At present, this is the most desirable new residential section in Cleveland Heights and should continue to hold this neighborhood esteem.
Executive - Professional ($10,000 up income) All American - 4 Jewish families This area is the East Cleveland part of the exclusive Rockefeller - Forest Hills Subdivision, platted about 1928 into lots ranging from 60 ft.x160 ft. to 90 ft.x175 ft. Homes were first built along Glynn and Brewster costing from $22,500 to $45,000. Eighty-one of these houses were built during period from 1930-1931. Sale of same was halted by the depression (only three sold and the balance were put on a rental basis with such exclusive services as landscaping maintenance, police protection, private car transportation to stores and public transportation). Reappraisal of these properties, in 1936, placed them on the market within the bracket of $13,200 to $22,000 and sales were very satisfactory; mostly to tenants. Immediately following completion of this program, lots were placed on the market for sale for the first time but development was opened only one block at a time. Other construction to date, besides that of the Rockefeller interest, amounts to only three houses. At present the whole area is approximately 25% built-up (principally concentrated in the northern part along Glynn and Brewster and the north sides of Wyatt, Fenemore and Henley). This area has all desirable advantages and, with existing minimum building restrictions of $12,500, will continue to maintain its exclusive desirability. However, rapid construction in this area within the next 3 to 5 years is not anticipated due to the fact that Rockefeller interests are favoring the quicker development of the southern part of the allotment lying in Cleveland Heights due to transportation, stores and schools along Mayfield Rd. However, favored schools and their accessibility to this East Cleveland section of Forest Hills will hold all residents. According to the best informed opinion, present salable value of vacant lots in this area are bringing little, if any, more than the actual cost of installed utilities and improvements which are all subterranean, paid for, including those from street to house.
Business men & Professional of desirable type South Decatur carline through area and North Decatur car line along railway in northern portion of area. Proximity to schools, churches, Agness Scott College (girls) and Decatur business section.
Professional - Executive American Community This very desirable residential section has the highest restrictions in Euclid. Development was begun about 15 years ago but proceeded only gradually and did not gain momentum until within the last 5 years. Improvement restrictions on streets between Edgecliff Blvd. and Lake Shore Blvd. are set at a minimum cost of $8000 (lots 45x133 ft. to 180 ft.). Restrictions for lake frontage property on Edgecliff Blvd. are considerably higher at $12,000 (lots 50 to 70 ft. frontage). The Property Owners Committee in this area must pass on not only the type of construction but also the eligibility of the prospective homeowner. The beach privileges, club house and small park are maintained by direct levy on owners within this subdivision. The most expensive homes (approximately 10) are located on Edgecliff Blvd. and range in value from $15,000 to $18,000. The future for this 75% built up area, with its rigid restrictions and recently strong business building activity, will continue to maintain its high standard of desirability for many years. *Percentages noted for "occupancy" and "owner occupancy" are based on the fact that this area contains about 100 homes of which 6-8 are new constructions vacant - for sale and about 6 homes tenant-occupied.
Professional - Executive - Merchants American Community This very desirable residential section has the second most rigid restrictions in Euclid. Improvements on streets between Lake Shore and Edgecliff Blvds. are limited to $6000 (lots 40-50 fit.x135ft. depth) and on Edgecliff Blvd. lake frontage is restricted to $10,000 improvements (lots 50-60 ft. frontage). This area also has beach facilities exclusive to this neighborhood's residents, and restrictions here also require that not only plans of property must be passed on by Property Owners Committee but also the eligibility of the prospective homeowner in this section. Cost of maintaining this facility, including upkeep of park and beach, is paid by direct levy on individual property owners in this area. Future trend for this 65% built up area is very favorable, and predicted on its recent building activity and high restrictions, no detrimental influences will affect this area for many years. Its lower restriction on building costs than Utopia Beach #5 to the west (A-30) will, in all probability, cause more building activity here. No rentals have been available in this area for the past several months. *percentages used for "occupancy" and "Owner Occupancy" are based on the fact that area includes about 175 houses of which approximately 10 new constructions are unoccupied by owners or vacant for sale and about 10 houses are tenant-occupied.
Professional & Business men New occupants - desirable type This allotment was laid 15 years ago; now 35% built up; practically all streets paved; all utilities; average lot front 40 ft.; level terrain; area consists of 95% single dwellings (6 rooms) and 5% cottages; very convenient to grade and high schools, churches and stores. This is a fairly new section; majority of homes are located south of Hilliard Dr.; homes along Laurel and Riverwood are a little more expensive than in rest of area. The area's eastern boundary adjoins the Metropolitan Park system. Free from any detrimental influences; local transportation is poor but this inadequacy is not considered detrimental inasmuch as all residents own automobiles. It is a fine quiet and clean community with pride of ownership very much in evidence. No heavily trafficked arteries. This area is accorded a good first grade rating in view of its rapid growth and present new construction activity.
Business men - White collar - Professional This area is located in the northeast end of Fairview Village; allotment laid out 12 years ago, and carefully restricted; now 35% built up; average lot front 50 feet; shrubbery and landscaping; all utilities installed. Bus transportation is only fair. The area lies immediately west of Rocky River and the Metropolitan Park; convenient to schools and stores; no detrimental influences affecting this area although better transportation facilities would enhance general desirability of area. Homes are set back at least 30 feet; uniform prices throughout entire area; 15 - 20 fine homes built here during past 12 months; new construction activity will probably continue at about same ratio. The area is accorded a good first grade rating.
Business men - white-collared This residential neighborhood was laid out 12-15 years ago; now 30% built up with 1 1/2 story homes ($5000-$6500) and 10% cottages; average lot front 40-50 feet; all utilities installed; homes set back 30-35 feet from lot line; good school facilities; bus transportation (on half-hour schedule during rush hours and then on the hour). A fine, restricted and fairly new residential section of Fairview, with fairly strong appeal to the small business men and white-collared worker who wants to live in the west-end; new construction is mostly east of Spencer; southern and eastern boundary close to Metropolitan Park. The outlying location and the transportation problem are slaes-resisting factors to some extent. This, naturally, affects the rental prices also - top rental here is $45.00 in homes worth around $6500. Another contributing retarding factor is the high school tax ($90.00 per year per property). Despite these apparent handicaps, the area, on the whole, shows a firm to upward trend; new construction will, no doubt, continue more or less at present ratio. No foreign infiltration. The area is accorded a fair first grade rating.
Business men - Professional & white-collared desirable type Area is about 18-20 years old. Streets are all paved; all utilities; well shaded streets. Lots average 45 ft. frontage; level terrain; build up 75-80%; well restricted; more expensive homes about $15,000 to $25,000 located on Greenway and Rocky River Drive. A clean, well maintained community. Very convenient to schools - one of the biggest drawing cards to area is the fact that school facilities are especially good; (George Washington School and Our Lady of Angels' highest rated schools in the Cleveland district. In addition, this area is close to St. Joseph's Academy for Girls; these factors are most important in selling property in this location. Very desirable section; good type of people; predominantly Catholic neighborhood. Ninety percent people coming to West Park prefer this location; good shopping facilities; close to Metropolitan Golf Course; borders on Metropolitan Park. Fairly heavy vehicular traffic on Rocky River Drive and Lorain Ave. but not considered detrimental to area. Reputed to be a thrifty class of people; foreclosure ratio low (less than any other section in city). Will remain desirable for many years and trend is definitely on the up grade.
Business men - Junior Executives - Professional This level area, lying immediately south of Lakewood, Ohio and abutting beautiful Metropolitan Park on western boundary, was platted in 1922; lots average 50' front and range from $1200-$2500. Well restricted throughout, this 60% built up area is made up of 6-8 room single residences. It has very good school, church and store facilities and transportation is available by bus and street car. Since 1935, this neighborhood has seen considerable new construction activity. Some 75-100 new homes were built here within the past 12 months. The greatest activity is in that section immediately north of Triskett Rd., including W. 151st, W. 152nd, Columbine and Rosemary; all of the development on Fernway, Columbine and Southward took place within the past 3 years. Much of this now construction activity is an overflow from Lakewood, Ohio which lies immediately north of this area and is pretty well built up, hence the trend is to the nearest first grade areas. St. Joseph's Academy (Catholic School for girls) is a beautifully wooded campus on the edge of Metropolitan Park and Rocky River Valley; this school is well-known for its educational standards. A fine, clean medium-priced residential neighborhood with no external detrimental influences. the present strong demand will continue for many years.
Professional This first grade residential area was laid out about 18 years ago and is located in the southwestern corner of Lakewood, Ohio. Restricted single dwelling construction with the exception of Woodward, Eldred, Atkins, Glenbury, Ogontz and the easterly portion of Delaware Avenues. Lots are 50 to 60 ft. wide excepting those where two-family constructions are permitted and these are 35 to 40 ft. front; all utilities installed; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and neighborhood shopping districts. This is the only first grade residential area in the south and west end of the city; sales demand is good and the future trend will be upward; some ten new homes ($8000-$15,000) were constructed along Riverside, McKinley and Narragensett during the past twelve months; beautiful Rocky River and Metropolitan Park about: this area on the west boundary. The better and more expensive homes are located along Riverside Drive (western boundary).
White-collared ($1500-$2500) (only a few families) Cosmopolitan This large area, eastern half fronting on Lake Erie with beach facilities was laid out about 30 years ago and is now 15% built up. Residential development has been concentrated largely in the eastern half principally along the lake. The advantage of having the nearest desirable beach facilities to the downtown area is a drawing power butu early spotty development somewhat depreciates the better homes. However, restrictions do not permit summer cottage construction now and the few existing structures are steadily being removed. Development has been slow due to cutting location and weak transportation (hourly bus). However, 30 new homes were constructed here in the past 12 months principally on Wolf Rd., Bosborn Rd., and Oakmoor Ave. (eastern part). All utilities are installed; streets are concrete and oil macadam; average lot frontage is 40 ft. Future growth of area will be along conservative lines but attractiveness as a residential section will increase as the closer-in areas become more fully developed. The presence of the New York Central RR running parallel with the southern boundary of area as a sales resistant factor is largely discounted by local realtors, since the roadbed is hedged in by trees.
Business men; Merchants; White-collared Polish & Slavish of above foreign and second generation in easterly section of area This area was platted 20 years ago; now 85% built up; level terrain; good streets; adequate transportation; all utilities in; heavy traffic on Madison Avenue. Ten new homes constructed during last 12 months on Hilda and Adeline Avenues (east side). Noticeable infiltration of Slavish and Polish into the eastern section of the area; this element has slowly spread out as far as Warren Rd. (central part of area). Home values in west half section show more firmness but those in the eastern half reflect a downward tendency due to foreign encroachment from surrounding third grade (yellow) neighborhood. This transition is not arrested and will continue at probably the same rate. The two-family houses are scattered throughout the area with a preponderance in the eastern half; restrictions expired but are superceded by zoning ordinance. Future outlook from a desirability standpoint is not too encouraging due to transition. Thus far, the foreign influx has been of the better type. The area is given a weak second grade rating.
Business men - Merchants Slavish Very gradual infiltration of better type Slavish This area is situated in the extreme west end of Lakewood; level terrain; paved streets; adequate transportation; close to grade and junior high schools. A very fine, old, but still desirable neighborhood; two new houses built last year; homes average 30 years with exception of that section west of Rockway which is much newer; no change in type of residents except for very light influx of better type Slavish; properties well maintained; beautiful scenic park along Rocky River just west of this area. Building restrictions have expired but are superceded by zoning ordinance; very heavy traffic along Madison Ave. Rents have been firm during past three years but sales prices have declined about 10% since 1937 - now firm, however. Will maintain its present level of desirability for next five years at least. Accorded a fair second grade rating.
Office men and Merchants Slavish & Polish (second generation) The homes in this area average 25 years; very fine homes on Arthur, Marlowe, Lincoln, Belle, St. Charles and Onandaga. The west end (comprising the first five blocks) contains the newer homes; heavy concentration of two-family dwellings on Victoria Ave. All utilities installed; convenient to schools (grade, junior and senior high), churches and stores; bus transportation (cross-town line); shade trees along most streets; an old, but good, clean and well-maintained neighborhood. Restrictions have expired. Presence of long stretches of retail stores and shops both north and south of this area causes some sales resistance. occupied heavily by Poles and Slavs, (solidly along Lincoln and Marlowe) the east of area is less desirable. On the other hand, area as a whole, should retain its present level for next five years. (Not much danger of an accelerated foreign infiltration). The area is accorded a fair second grade rating.
Business men; Merchants; White-collared Slavish - Polish Gradual infiltration of cheaper type American and foreigners (Slavish, from surrounding territory) This allotment was laid out about 25 years ago; now 90% built up; lots 40 ft.x130 ft.; all improvements; level to slightly rolling terrain; good transportation; two junior and one senior high schools located in this section; fine shade trees; no heavy traffic except on Franklin Ave. This was, up to recently, a very desirable and high type residential community; present gradual but steady infiltration of foreign element and cheaper class Americans is somewhat disturbing to older residents; foreign infiltration seeps in from surrounding third grade (yellow) territory. Sale prices noticeably down about 10% since 1937; zoning ordinance supersedes expiring restrictions. Twenty-two new homes built here during past 2 years, between Franklin and Detroit, on Bunts Rd. (northwest section). Future trend, however, is definitely on the down-grade. The two-family dwellings (10% of total) are scattered throughout area. This area is accorded a weak second grade rating.
Business men - White-collared Slavish Very light influx of Slavish people. Second oldest section in Lakewood but still remains a good clean residential community. This area, located between Lake Ave. and the N.Y.C. RR, extends all the way from Cove Ave. (east) to the westerly city limits. Built up 95%; all paved streets; all utilities; lots 40 ft.x110 ft.; side streets are well wooded; average age of homes 25-30 years; connects on the north with 4 first grade residential areas; restrictions in some parts have already expired; no new construction; mortgage money available up to 70-80%. Lakewood Park is located in this area; good transportation; two grade schools and one junior high located here. Rental demand is very high and the area, on the whole, will continue to hold its own for several years. New Main St. bridge will further improve transportation facilities for Lakewood and this section. The area is accorded a second grade rating.
Professional - Executives - Business men Very fine class of people locating in this area This area is located in the extreme easterly end of Lakewood and fronts Lake Erie; entire area zoned for apartments some 15 years ago; older apartments located on Lake Avenue - newer ones, along Edgewater Drive; no beach facilities due to high cliff; lots 60'x180'. Good transportation (close to Clifton bus line); all utilities in; business locations handy; within walking distance to grade and junior high schools; rentals in apartments run from $50-$150. Residential property activity is practically dormant; old owners are holding out for investment purposes. No residential construction since 1930. Edgewater and Lake Avenues, on north side, have developed in last 15 years with very fine and expensive apartments. Lake Shore Hotel (on the lake) is located in the eastern part of this area. Loans on dwelling properties limited to 50-60% of the appraisal. In view of the transition to apartments, the area is accorded a weak second grade rating.
Professional - Business men - White-collared This fine old, level to rolling area situated on the lake front, once the "elite" residential community of Cleveland's west side, was platted in 1910-12 and developed mostly with large 8 rm. single homes; lots range from 50-75' front, with the smaller ones mostly along Lake Ave. The area is 65% built up; the whole central portion, north of Edgewater Drive to the lake - between W. 103rd and W. 115th Sts. is vacant and is being held by New York City interests for investment purposes. Homes on Edgewater, Cliff, and Harborview range from $15,000-$25,000 and rent from $100-$125. Properties along Lake Ave. range from $12,000-$18,000 with a rental spread of $75-$90. The south side of Lake Ave., from West Blvd. extending all the way to W. 115th St., is built up with apartments. The rest of the area, however, is restricted to residences and the restrictions have some 20 more years to run. There are approximately 12-15 two-family homes in this area, located on Lake Ave. The area is free from exterior detrimental influences and remains very desirable due to its proximity to Cleveland's Public Square. Although sales are moving slow because of the age and the large type of homes, the area's occupancy continues to be very strong and, in all probability, it will remain so for many years to come. Professional men, especially doctors and attorneys, find this neighborhood desirable because of its nearness to the center of Cleveland. It has excellent transportation and the Edgewater Park bathing beach lies immediately east of this area. Its only handicap is the school situation; there are no junior or senior high schools and the nearest grade school (W. 105th and Baltic), which is located south of the area, stops at the 5th grade and children are compelled to go to the nearest full grade school which is about 1 to 1 1/2 miles away. However, informed realtor's opinion is that school handicap affects only a small portion of occupants (medium income bracket) for the majority of families send their children to private schools.
Merchants - White-collared - Artisans German-English of German & English This area was alloted in about 1908-1910; one of the older residential sections of Cleveland and built up 95%. Lots are 40-50 ft. wide with some 60'-70' along West Boulevard; level to slightly rolling terrain. West Boulevard, Parkhurst and Bosworth Rds. are the three "better" residential streets. Much older homes situated on Bernard and Fidelity Avenues. Older settlers are slowly giving way to a foreign infiltration especially in the eastern portion of the area. Good school, church, and store facilities; close in to Cleveland Public Square; (Sears-Roebuck 'west side' store located on Lorain Ave. & W. 110th St.); near enough to industry so as to make convenient travel thereto and yet far enough away from it to avoid its objectionable features from a residential standpoint. The Industrial Rayon Corp. plant, located southeast of this area (at W. 98th and Walford) is situated far enough away from the area to avoid the chemical odors and fumes from the plant. Heavy vehicular traffic along Lorain Ave. and W. 117th St. On the whole, the area should retain its present level for the next five years at least. Accorded a fair second grade rating.
Mechanics - White-collared - Merchants German-English This area was laid out in about 1914; located just south of Lorain Ave. between W. 117th and W. 130th Sts.; terrain level to depression in center because of creek running through south-central part of area; now 75% built up (northern half of area practically completely built up and homes are older, southern half - about 50%). Near to downtown Cleveland and convenient to schools and churches; zoned residential; a fine, clean neighborhood and still growing. Speculative contractors built 70 new homes here during past 12 months (price range $6000-$7800); these are selling rather slowly because of inadequate transportation facilities and distance to retail stores; street car service in northern portion of area; southern portion depends on bus transportation (bus service is handicap because it is necessary to transfer to street cars). Although no colored people live in this area, several colored children attend Hawthorn School located on W. 130th just south of Lorain (extreme northwest corner of area). Presence of creek (south of Cooley Rd.) is not considered a serious objection. Transportation facilities will in all probability improve with further expansion of new home building. Area is accorded a fair second grade rating.
White-collared - Merchants - Artisans German - English Very slow foreign influx in north part Original allotments in this area (northern half) were laid out in 1915-16; level topography; the area is now 65% built up; all paved streets with exception of two streets in the south and; bordered by creek on southeast corner and practically surrounded by a cheaper neighborhood. Street car service good in north half of area, poor in south half. A good, clean neighborhood and well-maintained. Is slowly overcoming come of its sales resisting forces such as inadequate transportation and inconvenience to stores (good shopping centers only at Lorain & W. 130th & W. 134th Sts.) The "preferred district" lies on W. 131, 132, 133 and Berea Rd. (north of Lorain) as well as W. 132nd to W. 138th, inclusive (south of Lorain to Cooley Ave.). Excellent school facilities - John Marshall High School, and St. Vincent DePaul and other grade schools conveniently located. Northern portion of this area almost completely built up; practically all new construction in the south end. No colored people in area, except that several colored children attend the Hawthorn School (located on W. 130th and south of Lorain). Some foreign infiltration is reaching into that portion of area lying north of Lorain Ave. and coming from the "old West End" around W. 65th and W. 67th Streets. This influx, however, is not heavy enough to disturb the better residential element. The area is accorded a fair second grade rating.
White-collared Very few foreign families This is an older section of Rocky River, having been allotted some 25-30 years ago; now 85% built up; average lot front 40 ft; all utilities; convenient to schools, churches and neighborhood stores; public library located here; bus line transportation only. The area is built up with smaller type 5-6 room single dwellings, ranging in price from $4000-$6500, with more expensive homes ($10,000) along the north and east strips of the area; also a scattering (3%) of bungalows. Twenty new homes built here during past 12 months (FHA loans on new construction). On boundary line with three first grade residential areas; activity here would improve considerably with better transportation facilities (10-15 minute walk to Lakewood bus line). Area is accorded a fair second grade rating.
Clerical - Business men - Better type of factory workers 20% of occupants are of second generation - mostly German This level area, located in West Cleveland and lying immediately southwest of Brokkside Park, is approximately 60% built up with single and two-family homes situated on 40' lots. The easterly section of area was platted in the early 1920's and the westerly portion saw development in the late 1920's. The area has all utilities installed and all streets paved, with the exception of W. 56th and W. 57th (south of Memphis); a small group of retail stores is concentrated at W. 48th and Memphis Ave. with a thin scattering on the "numbered streets" south of Memphis; convenient to schools and churches; transportation is by bus service on Memphis and W. 73rd - but transfer to street car is necessary to reach downtown. The single and two-family homes are intermingled, however the eastern half shows a predominance of two-family homes; new construction is concentrated along W. 56th and W. 57th on which streets some 15 new homes ($5200-6350) were erected within the past 12 months. Practically all of the unimproved lots are individually owned. The area will, in all likelihood, retain its present standard of desirability for several years due to proximity to Brookside (Zoological) Park and also because of its abutment to first grade area (A-14). Likewise, construction of new bridge over Brookside Park has made this area more accessible and there has been a noticeable increase in demand since its construction. Some years ago the Representative Realty Co. had begun construction of many homes in this area and went broke leaving several "skeletons" standing in addition to about 50 completed new homes; the company's interests were purchased by the Sammon Investment Co. who, through a sound selling campaign, was successful in disposing of all but 6 of the properties. For instance, out of some 40 new homes located in W. 48th, the Sammon Co. sold 34 - each selling for a little over $7000 with a $500 down payment, balance by first bank loan and junior mortgage. It is noticeable that not one of the homes sold by Sammon Co. was foreclosed or taken back during the entire depression period. Institutional holdings in this area are below average at present.
Business men - White-collared - Factory workers Slavish & German of better type factory worker and office clerks. This fairly level area is situated in the extreme southeast corner of West Cleveland along Broadview Rd. and Schaaf Rd. The northern portion of the area is its oldest section having been platted in 1915. Other allotments were added in the middle twenties. Developed with single (70%) and two-family (30%) dwellings, the area is now 65% built up and has all utilities including street paving. Very good school, church and store facilities with adequate street car transportation on Broadview. Approximately 30 homes ($5800-7000) were built here during the past 12 mos. mostly along Cook and Merl Aves. in the south end district. There is evidence that new construction is on the increase in the Oak park Section (lying immediately south of Brooklyn Heights Cemetery). The southeasterly section corner (east of W. 15th at Schaaf Rd.) is widely known as the "Schaaf Rd. Greenhouse District" and is owned by wealthy gardeners. Presence of cemetery on the west and (15) greenhouses on the southeast, although not considered by brokers as sales resisting forces, no doubt have a tendency to throttle activity here. However, the area, as a whole, will unquestionably retain its present level for several years to come. It will find its support from the first grade area (A-4) which it encircles.
Business men - Junior executives This area comprises a long, narrow stretch in the extreme northeast end of Parma and extends along Brookview Blvd. and North Ave. from State Rd. (east) to Schaaf Rd. (west). The area is 30% built up; restrictions; paved streets; all utilities installed; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and neighborhood stores; nicely wooded in extreme east end; average lot front 45 ft. A fine, clean and desirable small community. Industrial and railroad property lying all along northern boundary of this area does not affect its desirability; no vacancies; free from smoke and dirt; very few rentals; 10 new ($8000) homes (owner contracted) constructed here during past 12 months. Good sales demand; prices firm during past 3 years - now definitely upward; mortgage funds easily available up to full amount. Future outlook - very favorable. The area is accorded a good second grade rating in view of its more recent improved activity.
Artisans - White-collared Hungarian (better class) of a satisfactory type people with some Hungarians of the better class. This area is 60% built up; all streets paved up to W. 60th St.; WPA now paving two streets east of W. 60th and remaining streets will be paved as area develops; average lot front 40 ft.; all utilities in, except gas, on all streets east of W. 60th; fine trees, convenient to schools, churches and stores. No drop in proces during past three years; present prices (both sale and rental) now firm with upward trend indicated; 15 new homes (average $7000) constructed here *during past 12 months; mortgage funds available up to 75% in whole of section west of W. 60th; eastern section currently limited to 60% of appraisal until further improvements are made. Some sales resistance and curtailment in activity due to unpaved portions of streets east of W. 60th St. (roads here very bad during winter months); no street lighting in Parma except on main thoroughfares. Despite the latter drawbacks, the area, on the whole, should show increased activity in view of the demand for homes here and the volume of new construction during first 8 months of 1939. The area is accorded a second grade.
Business men - White-collared German & English of same type desirable Allotted 19 years ago; level terrain; is 35% built up; all utilities installed; all streets paved with exception of easterly and southwesterly edges of area; (WPA program calls for 3 street pavings this year). Ridge Rd. (main thoroughfare) runs directly through center of area; bus transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores; shade trees. A few two-family dwellings (5-6 room per unit) located in northwest section of this area. Homes are well maintained with exceptions of a few older houses. Good sales demand. Rents have increased 5% in last 8-9 months - trend will continue favorably. Homes along Sheraton, Forestwood and Albertly (east of W. 54th St.) are holding up to the prevailing standard in the entire area, despite the fact that they are surrounded by a third grade neighborhood. Six 2-family houses are located on Jameson, Dresden & Bremen. No street lights in Parma except on main thoroughfares. The inconvenient location of bus line (on Ridge Rd. & Pearl Rd.) and the "tax situation" peculiar to Parma, have been the area's greatest drawbacks. Despite this, however, there is a good demand for homes in this section. It is free from smoke, dirt and noise and general upkeep and appearance is good. Loans available up to 75%; some 25 new homes ($6500-8500) were built here during the past year. The area is accorded a second grade rating.
Small Business men - White-collared German & English The area constitutes a part of Eureka Park allotment; level terrain; average lot front - 50 ft.; 55% built up; all streets paved; bus transportation only; convenient to schools, churches and stores; fine streets; shade trees, with exception on Hodgeman and Deering Sts. Good restrictions; westerly border of area connects with Metropolitan Park; free from the common detrimental influences. (Street lights in Parma on main thoroughfares only). Practically all construction has taken place since 1933; all singles in price range of $6500-$11,000. A few expensive homes are scattered throughout the area. Twelve new homes ($7500-9000) were built here during the past year. Real estate activity is good. A fine neighborhood; located between two first grade areas; very strong upward trend and new construction will, in all probability, be accelerated somewhat. The area is accorded a good second grade.
Business men - Professional - College Professors The section south of Bagley Rd. is much older and consists of "very old but still desirable and well maintained homes". Many of the older houses have been modernized and some practically rebuilt. The better development took place in the past 20 years. The area was built around Baldwin Wallace College (enrollment 800). Prices range from $3000 (old) to $10,000 (new). Four new homes constructed here during the past 12 months. One on Bagley; two on Fourth and one on Peach St. costing around $6500. Nothing under $5000 in section north of Bagley. Present restrictions (not affecting older houses) call for $5000 minimum construction. Area now 95% built up. Approximately 20 lots available for further construction. Average lot front 50 ft. The area is generally well-maintained; all utilities; shade trees; excellent school system; good transportation; convenient to community churches, stores, etc.; all paved streets. A fine old and desirable second grade area which should retain present standard for several years to come. No drop in prices since 1937. If anything, a slight increase has been noticed during the first half of 1939.
Professional - Business men - College Professors This is a fairly new residential section. Minimum restrictions - $5000. Newer and more expensive homes located on Stanford, Lee and West Bridge Drive. Area is generally level; 50% built up; average lot front 50 feet. Paved streets - 60%; remainder - asphalt and slag. Installation of a boulevard and the general improvement of the lands lying east of this area by the Metropolitan Park System (total expenditure $3,000,000 WPA Project) will unquestionably enhance values and increase general desirability of the neighborhood. Large Ford Garage and Berea Miling Company, located one block east of this section (on Bridge and Center Streets). There is some odor (not unpleasant) from the cereal mill but this is not believed to have any unfavorable influence on values of adjacent properties. The trend is upward. Prices have shown a small but steady increase since 1937.
Executive and Professional 100% American This small area (Bedford's most desirable) known as Kleinman's Subdivision or Yorkshire Heights, was laid out about 1925-26 into lots averaging 40-45' frontage/ All improvements are installed and topography and landscaping is very attractive; a few large trees are scattered throughout lots, others have been planted along streets. Only one two-family (on Ivanhoe) is located in area. Pride of ownership is highly evident - there are no vacancies except three new homes "vacant for sale". Area is now approximately 75% built up and will continue to be desirable for many years although some new homes ($12,000 class) are "over-improvements" in this otherwise $6500-$10,000 neighborhood, and are meeting some sales resistance.
Professional - Business American This 2nd grade area lies on a wooded plateau rising from the west to east. Section was a "boom period" subdivision intended as an exclusive residential section (3 homes - $25,000 class) but distance from downtown Cleveland and poor transportation resulted in lower priced construction during the latter part of 1928-1929, in the $6500-$8500 class. During the depression, this area lay dormant until 1937 when a few owner-contracted homes were built. In the last 12 mos. four new speculative constructions ($6500-$7500) were built and sold. Community is stable - no vacancies - and informed realtor's opinion is that price trend should be upward. All streets are paved and utilities are in; lots have 50' frontage, amny are heavily wooded. This 40% built up area development lies principally in the southerly half along Eldred, Gould, Wandle, Ellenwood, Kenyon, Southwick, and the southerly part of Grand Blvd. Area contains two duplex homes but is restricted to single-family structures, except corner lots (for duplexes). Future for this desirable section appears favorable but will not proceed rapidly during the next 3-5 yrs. due to distance to stores, schools and churches, plus poor transportation (Broadway Ave.). Present deed restrictions expire in 1998 and set the minimum cost of new construction in area at $6000 except Grand Blvd. ($7500).
Business men & White-collared This area, known as the Wooster Rd. Subdivision, was allotted about 20 years ago; now 75% built up; all paved streets; all utilities installed; averaged lot front 50 ft.; convenient to schools, churches and stores; bus transportation only. Eastern boundary of area half-circles around beautiful Rocky River and Metropolitan shrubbery and landscaping; very much a settled community; free from foreign encroachment. Still in demand by the smaller business men who like to live in the northwest end of Greater Cleveland. Will retain its present level for several years. The area is accorded a second grade rating.
Professional - Office workers - Business owners Bohemian Higher type of 2nd generation - Bohemian descent This section was platted approximately twenty years ago and lay dormant about 5 years due to developers' desire to sell in 10 lot parcels to builders. This area is now about 15% built up; mostly vacant along Libby Rd. and portion east of Homewood. Lots average 40x135 ft. - all utilities installed and streets paved. Within the past two years a sudden spurt of development has occurred led by the building of 18 homes along Maple Heights Blvd. by one contractor. A parochial school and Catholic Church in community are result of an early settlement of Bohemian occupants who formerly lived in and near the E. 55th and Broadway section. Many of these original owners have died but their children (very much Americanized) show the same pride of ownership. The purchasers of new homes throughout area come from other foreign sections, which have retrogressed and they are improving the whole area's future. It appears that this section will continue to grow during the following years and increase in popularity since there are no detrimental influences and transportation along Libby Rd. is good.
Skilled Mechanics - Foremen - Business owners Bohemian-Polish-German More desirable, higher income group of foreign descent Subject area lies on a plateau high above the Cuyahoga Valley to the west. This section, fairly flat with very little wooded area, was formerly open farm land until platted about 1924-25 into lots averaging 40 ft.x120 ft. and is now about 45-50% built up. Development was very rapid during 1926-27 but became dormant in 1929 and remained so virtually until spring of this year. However, new construction sales this year have been so favorable that several builders are seriously planning steady construction (one a week) in the southern portion west of Turney Rd. The most expensive homes are located along and near Edge Park Blvd. abutting Garfield Park and range in price from $6500 to $17,000. There are also about five homes on the north side of Garfield Blvd. between E. 94th & Turney Rd. and about ten homes on the Blvd. east of Turney Rd. averaging from $7500 to $15,000. Occupants of this area are principally desirable second and third generation of foreign descent who were raised in the older foreign sections such as the third and fourth grade areas around E. 65th & Fleet and E. 55th & Broadway. These inhabitants take great pride in their home ownership and are constantly improving the appearance of their homes. The retail area for this whole neighborhood is along Turney Rd., particularly between Parkview and Richland Avenues. All utilities are in and all streets are paved except a part of Grace Avenue. This area has no detrimental influences and should continue to grow into a more desirable community. Development primarily will be in the part west of Turney Rd. since it is only 25% built up while the section east of Turney Rd. and to the north is built up about 75%. Agent's personal inspection of new construction revealed that properties are very well built. For example: five room, one floor plan homes, with copper plumbing, modern bath and kitchen fixtures, gas heat, 40 ft.x120 ft. lots, are reasonably priced at $5600 to $5900 and are mostly being sold prior to completion. Homes constructed in price range of about $6500 are mostly owner-contracted.
White-collared office workers - Small business owners Polish - Bohemian No - stable This area, known as Cranwood, lies in the northernmost portion of Garfield Heights. Although fairly level in the central part, the northwesterly corner is very scenic and the southern section (mostly undeveloped) is rolling and heavily wooded. This section was platted into 40 ft.x130 ft. lots, with the exception of East Blvd. (west boundary), about 1921-23. All utilities are in and transportation on E. 131st St. is excellent and has attributed much to the growth of the area. Only a few streets in southern part of area along eastern border remain to be paved (sidewalks and curbs already in). The most expensive homes (approximately 25-30) are located along East Blvd. on 60-70 ft. front lots and range in price from $9000 to $14,000. Practically all of the new construction, during the past year, was on or near East Blvd. Calvary Cemetery, with its beautiful park-like appearance abutting the west boundary, appears to have no detrimental effect on these East Blvd. property values. The retail district of this area lies along E. 131st St. Properties abutting this retail area, however, are uniform in desirability with balance of section. Owing to a peculiarity of school district allotment, this section, although within the limits of Garfield Heights, sends its children to Cleveland schools and thus pay a school tax of approximately $30 to $40 per property less than the effective Garfield Heights rate. This has enhanced the desirability of the area, particularly for rental tenancy as revealed by the fact that not one rental unit is available at present. Area is free from all normal detrimental influences, except for one odd situation. Colored residents from the distant fourth grade neighborhood to the southeast have acquired the habit of walking through the fields up to and along Christine Ave. in order to avail themselves of the high speed transportation on E. 131st St. This condition has created some sales resistance to properties on that street. This area is now approximately 75% built up and will retain its desirability. Speculative builders do not appear to be interested in this area since all but two of the nine homes built during the past year have been by owner-contract.
Managers - Clerks - Mechanics - Merchant German - Czech - English - Polish - Hungarian This second grade area's development began with the dedication of streets between the period 1921-28 then lay dormant until within the past 3 yrs. when construction again took place (30 homes past 12 mos.). Lots in area are 40' in width and section is now approximately 25-30% developed. Deed restrictions (expiring in 1950 on most streets) will maintain this neighborhood for the next several years. However, area is subject to present occupancy (30% foreign) and slight infiltration from 3rd grade area to the west. New construction, however, ($7000-7500) is in a bracket above the means of average undesirable foreign. Sales activity in area has been fair, hampered somewhat by the distance to schools, stores, churches and "Rapid Transit" transportation (S. Moreland Blvd.) although bus service is available (half hour service) via Lee Rd. Area's future, due to rapid new construction and gradual growth of city in this direction, plus existing restrictions, appears favorable for the next few years - transportation facilities will, undoubtedly, improve with continued growth of this section.
Merchants - White-collared - Mechanics - Minor executives Cosmopolitan Slight influx of foreign from west This portion of Shaker Hts., first developed with the dedication of streets at intervals between the years 1916-23, was based on zoning ordinances permitting construction of 2-family and apartment structures in a large part. This area, although in Shaker Hts., was not covered by Van Sweringen Co. restrictions but resulted in the incorporation with Shaker Hts. upon straightening of boundaries with Cleveland. Lots mostly 40' wide (ranging between 36-50') are now about 80-85% developed, principally with 2-family residences. Commercial and apartment buildings are located along Kinsman Rd. at its intersection with Lee Rd.; also at the intersection of Scottsdale & Lee. Transportation is via Kinsman Rd. and Rapid Transit on S. Moreland in area adjoining to the north. One grade school (Lee & Moreland) and one Congregational Church (E. 158th & Kinsman) are located in area - also close to St. Cecelia's Church and Parochial School (E. 152nd & Kinsman) in abutting area to the west. This community has suffered a continued infiltration of foreign and second generation of foreign descent, pushed into this section by colored infiltration to the west (Kinsman-Mt. Pleasant Section - D-12). In view of the above, area is given a fair second grade rating. Some new construction (15 homes in past 12 mos.), fair sales and good rental activity, plus desirability of living in Shaker Hts. forecasts a fairly stable future for this area for the next few years, but from there on steadily down.
Executive - Professional Cosmopolitan Slight influx of better foreign element from south This desirable 2nd grade area embraces three distinct types of development and was established, although in Cleveland, by the Van Sweringen Co., as a "buffer" area to the exclusive Shaker Heights. Development began with the allotment of area between period 1914-20. The part of area north of Shaker Blvd. is represented by a development with single homes (avg. age 12-15 yrs.) in the $10,000-$15,000 class, except N. Moreland (100% apartments). E. 132nd St. is about 45% developed with apt. houses (E. side undeveloped) mostly within recent years (avg. age 10-14 yrs). Balance of area south of Shaker Blvd. is developed with single homes, 75% built up; lots here being 60-75' in width. Homes in southeasterly projection are somewhat lower-priced than average for area. Transportation for this section is via Rapid Transit on Shaker Blvd. and S. Moreland, also Cleveland Rwy. at E. 132nd & Woodland. The major apt. development, known as "Moreland Courts" consisting of several buildings (6-12 rm. units) lies along the entire north side of Shaker Blvd. has been vacant for a number of years, but now is being developed with fine apt. houses; one completed, one under construction and two planned. Shaker Square is a unique commercial development of attractive Colonial structures embracing all facilities. Area's high rental bracket (apts. particularly) and advantage of lying within the Shaker Hts. School District (no public schools in area) establishes its future as stable for the next several years.
Executives - Professional Predominantly American This desirable area, now 98% built up, was developed (west of Ardleigh) about 33 years ago; the eastern portion at that time consisted of a golf course developed about five years later, called the Euclid Gold Development. This part of section is very scenic, well wooded, large lots well landscaped; homes are uniformly set back, price bracket ($12,000-22,000). The poorer streets in area lie in the section west of Ardleigh - consisting of Grandview and Bellefield. On these two streets mixed development of singles, two families and apartments has occurred. Colchester Dr. is almost solidly developed with "up and down" and "side by side" two-family dwellings. Only one other street in this area, South Overlook (southerly end), is developed with singles mixed with two-family constructions. With these exceptions, the balance of the area is totally developed with large single family homes. Lots average 50 to 100 ft. frontage, except on Grandview and Bellefield (40 ft. frontage). Area has all conveniences; no detrimental influences and suffers only from natural deterrent influences. such as solid development and age of existing structures. Of the four new constructions during the past year, one was located on Tudor and three on South Overlook. This area will remain desirable for many years but largest homes have a very slow market at present and will tend to pull price bracket down "from top".
White-collared - Professional - Small business owners - Junior executives Some of German - Italian - Jewish descent Slow influx of Jewish from E. 105 & Kinsman districts This area was developed about 20 years ago on a "street by street" basis with lots averaging 40-50 ft. to 100 ft. frontage and also includes many large estates, in the northwestern portion, covering whole blocks. However, more or less, standard of development has been maintained due to good restrictions, except that a few streets (Edgewood, Oakdale, Rexwood and Kensington) in east-central part, are developed with two-family homes. The larger estates lie, principally, in the northwest section, west of Coventry. Area has all conveniences and no detrimental influences, except heavy traffic along Cedar Rd. (main artery). Development along Cedar Rd., principally the eastern part, is mixed; singles, some 4-families, and "up and down" and "side by side" 2-familys. At present, area is built up about 90% and should continue to hold its desirability for the next 5 to 10 years. *One colored family is located in this area at the corner of Washington Blvd. and Cottage Grove.
White-collared - Office workers - Small business owners Predominantly American Slowly to Jewish - filtering in from north This area, originally without restrictions, was first developed throughout with many two-family dwellings until 15 years ago when included with the corporate limits of Cleveland Heights and restricted to single family dwellings. Although mixed in development, this area is now 98% built up. Upper bracket singles in $10,000-$11,000 class are located almost exclusively in the southernmost part, on and near Fairmount Blvd. Northern part of area is more heavily developed with two-family dwellings, almost solidly on Altamont and De Sota. Only few streets such as Dartmore, Exeter, Ashton, Shaker, East Monmouth are free from two-family structures. Commercial center for this district is Cedar-Lee intersection. Area has all conveniences and suffers from no detrimental influences, except its original unrestricted development and the possibility of a weakening in prices due to slow Jewish infiltration. Within the past two months there has been a strong sales demand for moderate proces two-family houses which has not been evident in the past five years indicating somewhat the return of investment purchasing. Average lot has from 40-50 ft. frontage; fairly level, few trees. *There is one colored family located on Meadowbrook Blvd. close to Queenston and one Chinese family located on Kingston close to E. Scarborough.
Office workers - Craftsmen in $2000-3600 income bracket Better class Italians Incoming occupants practically all American This area, known as the Noble Rd.-Monticello Blvd. Section, has been growing since its earliest development about 15-18 years ago. The recent construction (solid development) has been in the section formed by Monticello Blvd., Edison Rd., Haselton, Woodridge, St. Albans, Boynton, Radcliff and Caselton Rd.; also Thorne Rd. and Rosedale abutting southwest corner of Monticello Blvd. Balance of new construction has been spotted throughout area which is now about 80% built up (northern part blank on map is large ravine). The poorer streets in this area lie in the northwesterly corner consisting of Helmsdale and Nela View Rd. where development consists of mixed singles and two family dwellings. Foreclosures have been heaviest on these two streets and Cleveland Heights Blvd. (in southeastern part). This areas desirability is strong due to its lack of detrimental influences such as Jewish infiltration as in the balance of Cleveland Heights south of Mayfield Rd. Area has all advantages but its future real estate market is somewhat jeopardized by the potential withdrawal of some 200 or more families now employed at the General Electric plant in Nela Park who are being moved by their employer to Bridgeport, Conn. The effect of these homes being thrown on the market, although constituting a serious volume to be digested at present prices, should constitute only a temporary set-back to rentals and values. There is a possibility that some "employee-employer" arrangement will made to absorb these properties without forced liquidation. The main artery, Noble Rd. is developed with mixed commercial and apt. structures (two new apts. - one with 20 suites, other 30 suites - built in past 12 mos.)
White-collared Danish This allotment was laid out in 1929; now 15% built up; all streets paved; all utilities installed; average lot front 40 ft; convenient to schools, churches and neighborhood stores. Homes scattered all over area with no particular concentration; there are a few two-family dwellings on Center Ridge Rd. This district lay dormant until about 1936; presently, some 15-20 homes (5500-6000) are under construction; a desirable and attractive moderate-priced home section; borders first grade areas on the north and east; practically free from foreign encroachment with the exception of a few Danish families. This area, because of the rapid growth of abutting green areas, will show better future activity. Accordeda fair second grade rating.
White-collar - Some Professional - Jr. Executives Only 3 Italians families This older part of University Hts. was laid out about 20 yrs. ago into mostly 40' front lots with exception of Ashurst and the west side of Edgerton (east boundary) which have many 50' lots. First development occurred on Ashurst between Silsby and Scarborough and construction ranged from predominantly 2-family homes mixed with 2 story singles and small 1 1/2 story bungalows. Balance of area, however, did not become active until about 10 yrs. ago and then rapidly developed with uniform single homes. Ashurst lay dormant until within the last 12-18 mos. when a strong demand for 2-family houses caused a renewed activity on this street which is the only one, with the exception of Cedar, zoned for 2-family structures (nine 2-family homes constructed here in past 12 mos.) Zoning restrictions permit the construction of duplexes on corner lots most of which have been thus developed. Area is, at the present time, about 90% built up and will continue to hold its desirability for the next several years. All streets are improved and utilities in and paid for; stores, schools and churches are convenient. *One colored family in area is located on Tullamore close to Taylor Rd.
White-collared - Skilled Mechanics - Few professional - Some executives This odd shaped second grade area presents a rather difficult analysis because of types of development, restrictions, activity and sales resistance in some parts. The westerly finger-like projection of Antisdale and Grosvenor is the older part of area; utilities in and streets improved and paid for; 50% built up with homes in the $6500-7500 bracket (avg. 7 years). The other projection in that westerly part indicates slight development on side streets (two-thirds paved) just off Warrensville Rd. The northwestern corner contains two streets, Genessee and Sherbrooke, developed with modern 2-family homes ($10,000 class). Balance of area developed with singles; Harold ($6500); Buxton ($5500-6500 bungalows); Bexley Park ($9000 brick singles). The blank portion between Warrensville and Renford Rds. is undeveloped and has lain dormant for 15 yrs. The part of area east of Renford Rds. to Green Rd. and south of Bayard contains the area's most expensive homes built about 12 yrs. ago ranging up to $30,000 but now bring $12,000-$15,000. Sale resistance due to lack of transportation and distance to stores, churches and schools (by bus) and principally due to the fact that part of this area consists of Torrenized Land (Acacia Dr., Langerdale and parts of Templehurst and Laurel Hill) involving several court suits for payment of assessments and taxes. The southeastern corner of area between Green and Lyndway south of Notre Dame (school for girls) contains only 6 houses ($8500 class) has lain dormant since the depression (deed restrictions unwarrantedly high). The portion of area north of Bayard between Renford and Green is mostly undeveloped, although streets are paved and utilities are in (15% built up with $6500-7500 bungalows and singles). The northeast corner of area (Maywood, Oakmont and Sheridan Sts.) had had very active building activity within the past 18 mos. (20 new homes in past 12 mos.) and sales have been very good here. This area's future will vary according to each small part as discussed above but informed realtor's opinion is that the northeastern portion between Green Rd. and east boundary south to Division will continue to be actively developed because of the attraction of its uniformity and proximity to schools, stores, churches and transportation on Mayfield Rd.
Middle class - White-collared - Business Owners - Professional This desirable residential section was platted about 18 years ago but utilities and street pavement was not installed until 11 years ago; assessments paid out last year. Until 1927 only a dozen odd houses were built here, then between the period 1927-29 heavy construction occurred but died out in 1931 and lay dormant until within the last 18 mos. when strong activity again began and has resulted in developing this area up to 25% from an approximate 10% as of 1937. Lots in this area average 40'x140' with the exception of Belvoir Blvd. which has 50'x185' lots. Construction has been uniform, in the $6500-8500 bracket, and informed realtor's opinion is that this construction activity will continue unabated due to present strong demand. Area is virtually 100% owner occupied with no rentals available, except those in extra suites in duplexes on corners permitted by restrictions (approx. 6 located in area). The easterly portion of area is less undeveloped - Homestead, Lucille, Monarch and eastern part of Adrian lacking sanitary sewer. However, installation of this facility is being planned and construction activity in this section will follow in conformity with the westerly part of area. Schools, stores and churches are within convenient walking distance on Mayfield Rd. (adjacent area to east). Future for this section appears very favorable for the next 3-5 yrs.
Predominantly white-collar (office clerks - school teachers - few executives) This area consists of two small communities separated by a ravine lying between Oakhill and Taylor Road. Prior to the allotment of the Rockefeller-Forest Hill Subdivision, the Oakhill part of section was the most desirable residential area in East Cleveland. The Hanover part of section formerly was predominantly occupied by professors and other connected with the Case School of Applied Science and Western Reserve University. This second grade area was platted about 20-25 years ago into lots averaging from 40-50 ft. frontage, except along Oakhill Rd. where frontage averages 75-100 ft. At present this area is developed approximately 90%. The existing restrictions limit this area to single residences and desirability of community will be firm. Proximity to the Nela Park General Electric Plant has little or no detrimental influence due to the excellent factory arrangement and park-like appearance of industrial grounds. Proximity to schools, stores, churches and transportation (Euclid Ave.), plus proximity to employment, will continue to hold the desirability of area for several years.
Executive - Professional - Some white-collared - Factory workers Very few foreign families (in southern part) This large lake front area, stretching from Gordon Park on the west to White City Park on the east, became an ultra-exclusive "millionaires' row" section about 45 yrs. ago with the heavy movement of wealthy families into this section from the old-fashionable Euclid Ave. district. The large wooded estates (2-25 acre parcels principally front the lake, many extending back to Lake Shore Blvd. Several estate grounds contain large barns and servant homes. Then about 1920 many residents (descendents of original owners) began moving to the exclusive Shaker Hts. and Gates Mills areas. *Rental of these properties (mostly frame), because of exorbitant maintenance, has been for only nominal rates to entice occupancy and, especially in the 12-15 rm. group runs as low as $40 per month. There is no market for these properties due to existing restrictions which prevent resubdivision for new home development. Owners of the largest parcels such as the Mathers, Cushings, Jordans and the Eddys still remain in this section. The possibility of lifting the restrictions to permit resubdivision is remote at the present time, therefore prices will continue downward for these large properties. The small southwesterly part of area (those streets south of Lake Shore Blvd.) is about 85% built up (40' front lots) with standard single homes intermingled with a few two families. These properties have had a fair sales market and good rental demand because of accessibility to downtown area via E. 105th St. public transportation.
White-collar - Business men - Some professional This 90% built up 2nd grade neighborhood was first begun about 25 yrs. ago in the westerly part and about 15 yrs. ago in the easterly part. Lots range from 40-45' on side streets and 50-60' along the lake frontage. Homes on side streets fall in the $4500 class in the westerly part, and $8000 in the easterly part. Homes on Shore Acres and fronting on the lake range in value from $10,000-12,000. The park section abutting the west boundary contains a disposal plant but modern equipment, costing several million dollars, protects this neighborhood from any detrimental influence and has made this section much more desirable now than formerly. Schools, churches, stores and transportation are convenient to area on Lake Shore Blvd. (south boundary). This stable community should hold its own for several years, except in western part and along southern boundary which are declining slowly.
White-collared - Skilled mechanics - Business men Slavonian - Lithuanian Slow influx of second generation of foreign descent This 2nd grade area has been the scene of recent building activity by the Kangessar Co. (26 homes in the last 12 mos.) which has resulted in forced renting of many of these properties, others being held vacant-for-sale. Apparently speculative building here was in excess of demand and realtor's opinion also is that price has been in excess of value to some extent. This area was laid out about 15 yrs. ago into 40-45' lots (lake frontage 50-60'_ and was developed up until 1929 mostly with singles but also several 2-family homes. The lake frontage, however, is vacant except for 2 homes ($12,000 class) recently constructed. Area's streets are paved; utilities in and all facilities, such as schools, stores, churches, and transportation, are nearby (at east boundary). *Future for this 50% built up area appears favorable and it is believed the "fair" sales demand shown for new construction will be changed to "good" by a revision downward in the price of those properties unsold.
Small business owners - Professional - Some executives Slavonian This small area was laid out about 15 yrs. ago into lots ranging from 40' frontage on side streets to 50' lots fronting on lake and was developed totally with single family homes, predominantly brick. Area is now built up about 40%, principally on Rosecliff, Maplecliff and Dorchester (hard surfaced). Lake Shore Blvd. (main artery) is undeveloped and contains a large medical structure (Diabetic Clinic) now unoccupied. The west side of E. 185th (east boundary) is also undeveloped but is zoned for apartments. Much of the northeastern corner of this area fronting on the lake is undeveloped land. The most expensive homes in area are located on Dorchester ($10,000 class - 4 worth $15,000) fronting on lake. Properties on Maplecliff and Rosecliff fall in the bracket from $6000-8000 although there may be a few in the $9000 class. This area is popular to tradesmen, professional and small business owners and will continue to remain stable for the next several years. Transportation, stores, schools and churches are conveniently located nearby (E. 185th).
Professional - Office workers - White-collared workers American This small plateau wooded section, principally, is a development of Mr. George Marrott called Indian Hills which began by a rather lengthy campaign of lot selling before construction of homes took place. At present the area is approximately 15-20% built up; it is restricted to single family homes and lots, although irregular due to terrain, average 50 ft.x150 ft. Area lies approximately 100 ft. above Euclid Ave. and has only one outlet (Upper Valley Drive). It has been rumored that construction of 60 homes in this section is being planned but no evidence of actual construction is underway. At the present time, there are approximately 25-30 homes in this small area and sufficient vacant lots for approximately 175 homes exist. Area should, because of its isolation, retain its desirability. Distance to transportation, schools and stores (Euclid Ave.) constitutes some development sales resistance.
Foreman - Skilled mechanics - Some office workers American New occupants are of same income bracket This area was developed about 1925 with varied result by several development companies who undertook the sale of lots but gained momentum during the "lush period" of 1926-29. It is now approximately 65% built up with medium prices homes on lots averaging from 40 ft.x110 ft. plus some scattering of larger sized parcels. All utilities and paving are in and assessments have expired, except for occasional respread. Churches and stores are located within area; school is approximately 1/4 mile to the east. This area abuts the picturesque wooded Metropolitan Park System on its eastern boundary. Streets in this section lie on different levels and are attractively laid out following countour of land which follows a gradual ascent from the northern boundary to the south. This community, in informed realtor's opinion, will improve and become more desirable with a new construction, now proceeding gradually.
Business men This area, located in the southeast corner of Rocky River, was platted 15 years ago; only 10% built up; development is concentrated along westerly border of area on Parkview, Bonnie Bank, Westover and Laverne Avenues (all paved); gas, light and water installed; within walking distance (1/4 mile) to schools and shopping district; bus transportation only. Practically the entire section lying east of W. 199th St. is unplatted large parcels held in estates. Dormancy of area in all probability will continue for next years until development in the abutting first grade areas (to the north and south) becomes heavy enough to enhance the prospect of developing this second grade area sandwiched between them. Bearing out this opinion is the fact that the small amount of desirable valley frontage in these abutting first grade areas will be fully developed first and the present structures in this second grade area, although only 10% built up, indicate that a similar or better type of homes will be built here.
Professional - Skilled Mechanics - Teachers - Salaried employees American This Chardon Hills section is the development of four or more allotments during the "boom" period of 1925-28. Lying on a plateau connected with a fairly steep hill (Chardon Rd.) from Euclid Ave. this fairly level section, except for the western boundary abutting the Metropolitan Park System, is plotted in lots ranging from 45-50 ft. frontage and 135-200 ft. depth. Area is now approximately 70% built up with medium-priced homes, except along Haddon Rd. on western boundary which contains more expensive property and larger lots running down into the park and ravine. Improvements and utilities are all in and assessments have expired, although in many cases they have been respread on vacant lots which constitute a sales resistance to their development. In fact, there has been some sale of vacant lots by the Sheriff for unpaid taxes. Although restrictions throughout area have not been uniform, the original high price of lots apparently protected their development and has resulted in a remarkable homogeneity of construction although architecture varies. Schools, shopping centers and churches are located in the adjacent Euclid Ave. section. Some sales resistance is created by the fact that children from this area must cross Euclid Ave. to school. The rather steep hill from Euclid Ave. up to this plateau area is objectionable to housewives who must shop in Euclid Ave. section. Future for this area, according to informed realtor's opinion, should continue to hold its own and improve slightly with additional construction which will in all probability, proceed at a good place during the next few years.
White-collared - Small business owners - Skilled mechanics This scenic, partly wooded area known as Beverly Hills, lies on a rolling plateau separated by a valley from Euclid Ave. This was a development laid out during the boom period of 1925-29 and had only slightly gotten under way when the depression set in. Since that time, it has lain dormant except for an occasional house built during the last 4 years. This 5% built up area, however, deserves a second grade rating because of the standard of construction, scenic location and freedom from all detrimental influences, except distance to downtown and lack of transportation facilities. (All streets are paved and utilities in). Future development here will be slow because of lack of transportation but will be in conformity with structures in area due to restrictions.
Salaried employees - Some merchants - Professional craftsmen Better type cosmopolitan Slow infiltration of foreign into western end This desirable residential section is oddly shaped due to the fact that projections north of Lake Shore Blvd. include those streets of older development and proximity to cheaper third grade neighborhoods also north side property abutting the main artery Lake Shore Blvd. Development began in this section about 18 years ago and at the present time area is built up about 70% on lots averaging 40-50 ft. frontage. Property south of Lake Shore Blvd., although uniform, varies considerably in development street by street (particularly price bracket of homes). The northerly projections of this area, with the exception of E. 190, E. 191, E. 192 and E. 207th are oldest and contain cheaper properties in the $5000 to $6500 bracket. The most desirable streets in this area, such as E. 214 and E. 216, having 40 & 50 ft. front lots and developed with a heavier concentration of brick homes ranging in price from $8000 to $12,000. Lake Shore Blvd. is virtually undeveloped with residential homes and has a scattering of commercial structures principally at the intersection of E. 200 and E. 219. The west side of E. 200 abutting this area is vacant with the exception of one house and constitutes a barrier between this area and third grade area almost immediately to the east. Crystal Ave., abutting southern boundary of the central portion of this area, is also vacant and constitutes a barrier between this area and 4th grade area to south. Some owners in area along such streets as E. 208, E. 210, E. 211 and E. 216 share the beach privileges of Utopia Beach #2 and #3 located in first grade area to the north. New construction activity has been very favorable during the past year and should continue steadily based on apparent ready market. All facilities such as: Schools, stores and churches are nearby; transportation, however, is only fair via 1/2 hour bus transportation on Lake Shore Blvd.
Capitalists - Statesmen - Professional also white-collared - Craftsmen - Factory workers All American No change This area presents one of the most difficult problems of gradation and description of any section in the city. This beautiful lake frontage property consists of exclusive estates broken occasionally by small streets developed with cottages and homes ranging from shoddy three room, flat roll-paper roof frames to modern six room brick and stone homes side by side. In order to present a complete picture, we will take the entire area by footage and explain its development beginning with E. 226th St. working east to the border of area at E. 265th. East 226th St. was developed in 1928 into lots averaging 50 ft.x150 ft. at $45-$60 per front foot and is now about 50% developed with homes ranging from $7500-11,000. Fronting lake property (4 homes on Edgewater) range from $13,000-$18,000. Immediately east of this street are the estates of Carmi Thompson, Fred Hein, Chas. R. Ely, Ad Adams, Henry Guenther, Emma Smith and Herbert Gleitz. These properties lie on estate ground running from Lake Shore Blvd. 1400-1600 ft. deep to the lake and consist of 3-17 acre parcels and range in value from $50,000-$200,000. One parcel (Gleitz Estate) was purchased last year for $125,000. These exclusive estates are broken by the following streets and driveways developed with shacks, summer cottages and semi-bungalow homes and a pumping station. The first of these poorly developed streets is a driveway (no street number) opposite E. 235th St. (Continued on next page)
Middle class (white-collared to professional & jr. executives) American Better class higher income bracket This second grade area lying north and south of Lake Shore Blvd. consists of four subdivisions as follows: BROOKWOOD (north of Lake Shore Blvd.); FULLERWOOD (south of Lake Shore Blvd. to Forestview); HOMESITE (Forestview south to Shoreview) and FOREST PARK (Shoreview and area south - shown unplatted). BROOKWOOD was platted about 1924-25. Utilities and paving installed about 1928. Building was heaviest during 1929. An unusual situation in this area is the fact that expensive homes are intermingled with a few cheap homes (as low as $3000) constructed prior to plating and restrictions now in effect, namely: $6000 on side streets and $10,000 on lake front (exclusive of lot). Average lot is 50 ft.x170 ft.; all streets improved. The presence of less desirable homes does not appear to detrimentally affect property value since their removal will eventually be accomplished. No additions being permitted. FULLERWOOD was platted about 1928 into lots 50 ft.x158 ft. All streets have utilities installed. Only 25 homes are located in this beautiful wooded section. Lots originally sold for $60-$75 per front foot. Minimum restriction for homes (exclusive of lot) is $6500. Homes built are much more expensive. Development has been slow in this area due to rather high special assessments which, however, pay out this year. Although only 5% built up, the existing restrictions and beautiful appearance of this part of area will, undoubtedly, become a first grade neighborhood when development becomes substantial. HOMESITE was platted about 1924-25 into 40 ft.x140 ft. restricted to $5000 (house and lot) and has the older homes in this whole area. However, new construction has been better than restrictions but lack of uniformity in set-back has damaged the appearance of some streets, particularly along E. 265th. Location of schools in this area holds property value. Although most homes are frame, new construction is primarily brick. Area is also beautifully wooded. FOREST PARK, a small subdivision, is entirely new and at present consists of 18 homes built last year ranging in price from $6750 to $7950. Construction is excellent; homes are predominantly of brick, gas heated and restrictions are strongly enforced by developer who intends to build 40 more houses on the two new streets being installed south of Shoreview between E. 260th and E. 277th St. Price range of these homes will be from $6500 to $7500. On the whole, this area will maintain its general desirability due to the fact that beach privileges and actual home ownership are entirely dependent upon the approval of purchasers by other residents in community. This, in fact, is far more stringent than restrictions on home construction. Rentals are almost non-existent. The one detrimental feature to this neighborhood is its only fair transportation. (1/2 hr. bus service via Lake Shore Blvd.).
Professional - Small business owners - Salaried employees Better class Hungarians This area, consisting of two small desirable sections, lies in and abuts Woodland Hills Park to the east and north, also on southern boundary abuts a scenic ravine being improved by the Metropolitan Park System. Homes were developed here about 25 years ago and area is now 100% built up on lots ranging from 40-60 ft. frontage. Construction is sound; properties are well kept and occupants in this old section are of a much higher income bracket than those in surrounding areas. This area's desirable park location has stabilized values despite heavy foreign infiltration in surrounding areas and home ownership here has been strong and has withheld a change in neighborhood characteristic to less desirable ownership. Future for areas desirability over the next 5 to 10 years would appear to be weakening somewhat due to age of property, and, realtor's opinion is that a gradual or slow decline in value may be anticipated upon death of present owners, many of whom are retired and advanced in age now.
Merchants - Business men - Factory workers Cosmopolitan A heavy settlement of second generation foreign This area consisting of a narrow strip along Lorain Rd. from the westerly city limits and extending all the way east to W. 189th St. has been allotted 20 yrs. ago and is now 40% built up. Lots range from 40-50 ft. front; two grade schools and a very good high school located within very short distance. Very good transportation and shopping facilities; good residential restrictions. The central part of area is fairly well built up along Park, Angela and W. 212th to W. 215th St. There are several large homes with 5 acre tracts located along Lorain Rd. west of W. 208th and extending all the way to area's eastern boundary. The small retail trade center situated on Lorain at Spencer Rd. shows evidence of some expansion and will, no doubt, occasion some sales resistance on the immediate and adjacent properties and lots abutting the commercial square. The traffic on Lorain Rd. is fairly heavy but this feature up to now, however, has had little or no effect on the salability and desirability of homes in this area with the exception of the immediate properties abutting the retail center. Free from industrial proximity the area remains clean and properties are being well maintained. There are a few cheaper houses in the northeast section and along the southwesterly part of area. The area has a heavy second generation foreign (cosmopolitan) population and these have migrated here from sections closer in. Future development in area will be by same class of people.
Business men; white-collared; professional and artisans. German This area was laid out about 18-20 years ago; 50-60% built up; lot front average - 40 ft.; all utilities; street car and bus transportation; trees in northern part of area; level terrain. New construction has been mostly in southern portion of area (Milburn, LaVerne, El sienna, W. 157th to W. 163rd) also extreme southern area (Ponciana and Flamingo); 90% of all new construction were erected in the southern half of this area and along the easterly border. Residents mostly coming from west side of area (off Lorain Ave. - eastern portion W. 140th to W. 117th). Good school facilities; streets paved, except extreme southern area (scattered few, these will be paved when district develops). St. Patrick Parochial School & Parish, and Valley View School in this area. The recent rapid growth of this area (some 100-125 new homes built here during the past 12 months) is due to the heavy building programs enjoyed by the areas lying immediately north. Heavy vehicular traffic on Puritas Rd. and Rocky River Dr. The area is accorded a second grade rating in view of the heavy new construction program and rapid increase in growth.
White-collared - Business men The first subdivisions in this area were laid out in 1916 and 1917 with no new allotments since 1926; 80% built up; average lot front 40-45 ft.; level terrain; all paved streets; all utilities installed; very good school, transportation and shopping facilities. This is a well restricted area ; 80% of new construction within past 12 months located south of Lorain Ave. A fine, clean and well-maintained section, fairly free from common detrimental influences. Prices here are very firm and "for sale" signs are scarce; the retail shop section is located at the intersection of Rocky River Dr. at Lorain Ave. This commercial district begins about 500 ft. north of Lorain Ave. and will, no doubt, travel south along Rocky River Dr. The transition, however, will be slow and will have no immediate effect on the adjacent residential section. Heavy vehicular traffic is found on Lorain Ave. and Rocky River Dr. This area will show an upward trend for the next five years. It is accorded a good second grade rating.
Mostly white-collared workers Hungarian, Bohemian & German Approximately 10-15% of above nationalities better type people. (second generation) This section is 20 years old; now 40% built up; 80% of streets are paved - 20% dirt streets; average lot front 40 ft.; restrictions; transportation and shopping facilities - only fair; all utilities installed or available. This is a fairly new section and its rather slow development has been due to inadequate transportation and because several of the streets are not yet paved (WPA is paving two streets in this area). New grade school located on Montrose Ave.; most of the new construction is confined to that section of the area lying south of Triskett Rd. This area will, no doubt, show further improvement in view of the accelerated new construction in the abutting first grade area. Somewhat larger and better homes are located along the westerly border of the area.
Business men - Office & factory workers - retired farmers This area, comprising all of the territory of Olmsted Falls, is situated in the southwest corner of Cuyahoga County and approximately 14-15 miles southwest of Cleveland's Public Square. The area is generally hilly and rolling and overlooks scenic Metropolitan Park which lies to the east. Olmsted Falls is one of the oldest villages in the county. It is built up 20% with all types of homes. There was a good bit of "sentimental" buying during the "boom days" in Cleveland and a particularly heavy demand for scenic spots where old homes were purchased and remade into "colonial type residences"; as a result, there are several fine old "land marks" in the area. The newer homes are located south of the village center and west of Columbia Rd. Most expensive homes ($12,000) located along River St. in the eastern (most scenic) section of the city; the cheapest homes (cottages around $2000-$2500) are found on the extreme west side on Cranage St., west of Division St. Three new houses built here during past 12 months. Area's retail shopping district consists of 6 stores; good grade and high school facilities. Lack of adequate transportation is area's chief deterrent (street car to Lorain & Rocky River Dr. and transfer to bus to Olmsted Falls (hourly). Train service - one round trip per day by N.Y.C. RR (22 minutes to Cleveland downtown). Main arteries are Columbia and Bagley Rds. Pending improvement in travel facilities, any progress in the area will be along conservative lines. The area is accorded a fair third grade rating.
Factory workers Slovak - Hungarian - Bohemian - Polish of second generation - foreign This area, laid out 20 years ago, is now almost completely built up. It has good transportation, school and shopping facilities and remains fairly attractive to factory workers who find employment in the industries lying immediately southeast of the area. Seventy-five percent of the homes are of the two-family type and 25% of the two-story one-family type; there is an intermingling of both types of homes on all streets in the area. It now has a foreign population of 75% and is commonly referred to in Lakewood as a "foreign community". Sales prices have declined approximately 5-10% since 1937 but will, in all probability, remain firm and follow only obsolescence of property since character of occupants is of stable home-owning type.
Mechanics - Some white-collared This area was originally laid out in 1918 by the Knight-Norris-Gibbs Co.; now 30% built up; 70% dirt streets; 30% paved; average lot front 40 ft.; all utilities installed; transportation is fair only (bus service on Triskett and Fischer Rd.); good school facilities, convenient to churches; a few retail stores on Fischer Rd. Only nominal restrictions in some sections of area and none in others. As a result, the area was improved with cheap cottage type homes. J. S. Bradley Realty Co. (in 1935) built two prefabricated steel homes on W. 137th St. for experimental purposes. These were constructed to feel out the market and after an effort of almost one year without any known demand, there homes were finally rented. Boundary of this area well built up; open portion within is bound to build up inasmuch as there is no other place nearby for cheap, low-prices houses. If streets east of W. 140th were paved, new construction would average about 25 homes per year. Immediate eastern portion of this area is affected by smoke and dirt from nearby railroad line; other sales resisting features are location of City of Lakewood Garbage Disposal Plant (Berea & Fischer Rds.) just north of this area, as well as several factories, coal yards and refineries located along eastern boundary. In view of these factors, the area is accorded a weak third grade rating.
Mechanics - White-collared German-Hungarian-Italian This area was laid out about 1916-18 (known as Oakhurst Subdivision) - northern portion. Southern portion was laid out since construction of Airport in this area which was about 1924-25. Average lots from 40 ft.; Oakhurst has some 50 ft. Only 10% streets are paved; 90% dirt roads; no utilities with exception of water and electricity; fair transportation by city bus; level terrain. Built up 10%. Sewer cannot be installed until a disposal plant is built somewhere in Rocky River valley. This was contemplated sometime in 1928 but never materialized. Lack of good transportation and utilities, stores, schools and churches and distance from center of town constitute the detrimental influences. No street lights, with exception of Rocky River Drive. Fifty percent of vacant lots are individually owned. These were bought when subdivision was laid out. Much of this land appears on tax delinquency list. No activity will occur here until the aforementioned utilities are in. Approximately 2% of this whole area consists of two-family dwellings and these are scattered throughout. Area accorded weak third grade rating.
Airport mechanics & employees This area was alloted in 1926; located along easterly boundary of the Cleveland Airport; built up 10%; 30-40% streets paved - remainder dirt and hard surface; average lot front 40-45 ft.; all utilities installed with exception of sewer; city bus transportation - fair only. Grade school located at Five Points Rd. in extreme south end of area; a very convenient location for airport employees and mechanics. Predicted expansion of airport will result in the building up of this area if not by home owners, then for rental purposes. Only restricted as to height of buildings, etc.; lack of sewer facilities is chief deterrent to property activity. Area is accorded a weak third grade rating.
Craftsmen - Factory workers - White-collared - Merchants Cosmopolitan This area was laid out about 15 years ago. Built up 20%. Average lot 50 ft.x125 ft.; practically all streets paved; water, light, gas and sewer installed along Pearl and Bagley Roads - not available to balance of area; poor transportation; distant to schools and churches (nearest school 3 miles); terrain is level to rolling in southwestern part of area. Restrictions only between Parklawn, Webster, Pearl and Big Creek roads. Heavy vehicular traffic on Pearl Road; fire protection - weak; high insurance rates; area is surrounded by farm lands and fields. Very little activity since depression. Further development will probably consist of one acre parcels with small homes - this type attractive to factory workers who want to locate in outlying sections.
Laborers - Factory workers - Railroad men Slavs - Bohemians This area was laid out in 1920; level topography; (that section lying south of Puritas Rd. is known as Glenmore Gardens). Area is built up 20%; average lot front 40 ft.; very few paved streets; utilities installed; transportation (by bus) is only fair - must transfer to street cars in order to get to Cleveland Public Square; a grade school is located on eastern boundary of area; poor shopping facilities. The best development is on W. 150th St. (now cut through to Brookpark Rd., thus improving accessibility to area). Very few homes are located in northern section of area; entire area surrounded by industrial sites. Inadequate transportation facilities and outlying location are the deterring influences. Future growth, at best, will be along conservative lines. The adjacency to the industrial district and transportation problem make this a weak third grade area.
Laborers - Factory workers - Railroad men - Some white-collared Czechs - Hungarians Fairly heavy influx of second generation foreigners This level area was platted in the early twenties - (northeast section laid out by Crawford Land Co.); now 40% built up; average lots front 40 ft.; 65% streets paved, remainder - dirt and hard surface; gas, light and water available. Transportation (by bus) is only fair - poor in western section of area. Poor shopping facilities; good school facilities. Building restrictions confined to section where new construction is taking place - along northeast and westerly portion of area. Lots in northeast end (approx. 3000) are owned by United Properties, Inc., who through various builders are constructing new homes ($5500-$6800 - FHA financing) and are "pushing" this section. Up to now, however, sales have been moving rather slow. Some 75 homes built here last year. Bordered on the west and south by industry, on east and south by fourth grade (red) areas. Future progress, at best, will be along conservative lines; (rentals, in the lower brackets, show a slight uptrend, however). The transportation problem together with the area's somewhat unfavorable location (from a residential standpoint) makes this a third grade area.
White-collared - Artisans - Few laborers English - Irish - German - Hungarian - Bohemian Above nationalities moving in slowly This area, consisting of several allotments, was laid out between 1905-1910; now built up 85%; level terrain; average lot front 40 ft. (60 ft. lots along West Boulevard); all utilities installed; good transportation; good school and shopping facilities. About 25 new homes were built here during the past twelve months. The area is fairly well built up, however, and homes are beginning to show age. The entire length of the southeasterly boundary of area borders closely with industry and prevailing winds carry smoke and dirt to that lane of properties lying nearby. The Industrial Rayon Corporation is located at Walford and W. 98th St. (southcentral part of area); entire residential section surrounding the Rayon Plant suffers badly from chemical fumes - so strong that it deteriorates house paint and, therefore, creates a strong sales resistance. A few years ago the Rayon Corporation was compelled to elevate its smoke stacks and install other eliminating processes in order to avoid continuation of this nuisance. Although some improvement is noted in the immediate surrounding area, it must be said that the higher stacks have a tendency to spread a thin layer of fumes over a wider area, i.e. with southerly wind, the fumes affect area as far as Edgewater and Lakewood.
Factory workers - White-collared - Few business men - Artisans german Heavy second & third generation German Level topography with slight incline from W. 110th to W. 115th; eastern section of area platted in 1910, western section in 1917-1918; now 70% built up; average lot front 40 ft.; paved streets; all utilities installed; good transportation; good school and store facilities. That section of area lying west of W. 123rd St. was originally laid out with 25 ft. lots; most purchasers, however, bought also the adjoining parcel although some homes have been built on the narrow lots. The entire northern section of area borders on industry and adjacent properties are somewhat affected by smoke, dirt and soot. Lorain Ave. is the main thoroughfare with a retail store concentration west of W. 117th to W. 119th and at W. 130th and Lorain. Most stores have living room suites and small apartments above; large apartment buildings are located along Bosworth Ave. The West-side Post Office and Sears-Roebuck Store also located in Lorain business section. The area, although gaining in commercial influence, is still desirable to those who want to live close in. Rental prices, especially in the lower brackets, increased at least 5%. About 12 homes built here last year. The area is accorded a third grade rating.
White-collared - Business men German - English - Hungarian Laid out about 1910 and now 85% built up; all utilities; good restrictions; very good transportation and shopping facilities; convenient to schools and churches. Madison and Detroit Aves. comprise the oldest sections of area. Better and more expensive homes are located along Clifton Blvd. and in section between Clifton and Baltic Rd. The two-family homes (20%) are pretty much scattered; several apartment buildings (10%) in area with a concentration on West Blvd. and Clifton. Presence of Edgewater Beach park adds to desirability; handy to Public Square, especially with opening of Main Avenue freeway. Despite adjacency to industry (on south) the area remains fairly free from any obnoxious odors and smoke. Will retain present level for next five years. Area is accorded a third grade rating.
Office & factory workers - Laborers Polish & Slavs - This subdivision is now 30% built up; all slag and cinder streets with the exception of Lindbergh Blvd. which is paved; electric, gas, and water available; sewer being laid along Fair Rd. - will serve all homes on streets abutting Fair Rd. but will not serve that section of area lying north of West Rd. and west of Baker St. Transportation is fair; convenient to grade school but distant to high school, college and to community stores. Northwest corner (along Abbyshire and Lindbergh) affected by smoke and dirt from railroad. More recent building activity aided in lifting sale prices slightly. Seven homes built here during past year. Straight loans available up to 50% and FHA up to 70%. A slow upward trend is noticeable. Vacant lots priced around $200 - these cost originally $500. Due to its slow development and price range of homes, the area is accorded a third grade.
Laborers - Factory workers - White-collared - Tradesmen & skilled mechanics Bohemian - Hungarian - German - English (westerly section) Slow influx of foreign from areas nearer downtown This area, consisting of several subdivisions, was laid out in 1900; now 95% built up; level terrain north of Lorain and rising from Lorain south to Denison Ave.; lots range all the way from 30 to 60 feet frontage; good transportation; very convenient to schools, churches and stores and close in to Public Square. Retail stores on both sides the length of Lorain Ave. (main thoroughfare) with apartments above most of the stores. Stores also on Madison Ave. Fairly large apartment buildings are located on Franklin Ave. The oldest section of area is off Denison and W. 73rd. About 30% of the homes consist of the two-family type and these are scattered throughout area. The industrial section is in the northwestern part and also along northern part and southern border along W. 73rd and W. 65th St. Stock yards are located in south end of W. 65th St. A very convenient location to industries and shopping centers; close to downtown section. Many of the homes have been painted since 1936 and general appearance of area is good despite its industrial and commercial proximity. Should retain its present level for next five years. Four colored families live in this area; about 20% of the people are Bohemians, Germans, Hungarians and English. The adjacency to industry and commerce makes this a third grade area.
Factory workers - White-collared - Small business men - Merchants Polish - Hungarian - German Second generation German This area comprises the immediate west side of Cleveland and was laid out about 1890; now fully built up; very good school, store, shopping and transportation facilities. Better residential streets are Franklin, W. 45th, W. 47th and W. 48th St. Poorest section is easterly portion of Fulton Rd. Upkeep and maintenance is spotty and many homes suffer from lack of paint. Sadly lacking in uniformity- everything here from cottages to three-story residences. Also a fairly heavy percentage of two homes on single lots and five homes on two lots (at intersections mostly); foreign encroachment is heavy and size of families is noticeably larger. People are coming in from "red" area (north) and the east end (from the "flats") as the better element is emigrating to areas further west. Not altogether bad but rapidly declining in desirability. Presence of all of the above factors makes this a weak third grade area but it is certain to fall another notch before many years due to type of transition.
Laborers - Factory workers Bohemian - Some Italian A heavy Bohemian Community - infiltration of Italians in east border of area. This area was laid out 45-55 years ago; level topography; lots 30-35 feet front; built up 100%; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches, stores and Cleveland Public Square. Foreign encroachment began in about 1910; at that time many new homes were being built in Brooklyn Village and many of the old settlers relocated in the new residential territory. The homes in this area are very old, and mostly without basements or furnaces (homes are heated with gas and circulating coal heaters). General upkeep and maintenance is very poor - some of the homes have not been painted since the depression. Home ownership ratio remains high due to permanent settlement of older class of Bohemian people. The Italian infiltration to the east portion of area is fairly heavy. Western portion suffers from odors from about 12 packing houses located just north of this area. No FHA financing; banks and building and loan companies stay shy of entire area. Future trend - Italian encroachment will become more pronounced (coming in from "D-6" slum area); this area is given a third grade rating for the present due to high ownership-occupancy and the fact that Bohemian settlements are built around their churches and schools and will probably remain here for a few years at least.
Laborers - Factory workers Bohemian - Slavish Mild infiltration of Italians to the northeast sections of area. Area laid out in 1899; level topography; now completely built up; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Foreign infiltration began about 30 years ago; Bohemian and Slavish settlements are built around their churches and schools and will remain intact for several years. About 75% of the houses are without basements. Sales activity is weak. No FHA lending and banks and building and loan companies are also unwilling to lend here. Northern lane of area lies within 1/2 mile of several stock yards and packing houses and is affected by the odors from these. Heavy traffic on Denison Avenue. Homes are getting older, sadly in need of repairs and paint; on the whole, the area will continue in its downward trend, due to age and obsolescence.
White-collared - Mechanics - Factory workers Several Very light infiltration of Italians in northern part of area This area was allotted 40 years ago; now fully built up; average lot front 40 ft.; has good transportation; good school, store and shopping facilities. This was originally a high class residential section and was developed by the business people residing on the west side. Homes are generally well kept and many of the original settlers still reside here. A fairly well settled community except for a mild infiltration of Italians in the immediate north end of area along Woodbridge and Marvin Avenues. Home ownership ratio remains high. Mortgage financing is ample. Area is sandwiched in between cheaper neighborhood (C-23-25 and D-6); southern boundary of area abuts industry. Will remain a fair third grade area for several years.
Laborers and Steel workers Polish - Slav - Russian of lower class Polish people This section laid out 40-45 years ago; 35 ft. lots; terrain rolling to hilly; good transportation; convenient to schools and stores. The area's surroundings are not favorable; abuts Riverside Cemetery on the north and industry on the east and south. Hold attraction to steel workers who are employed in nearby mills (new Republic Steel Mills located 1/4 mile from area). Owner-occupancy remains high. A small colored settlement is situated on the easterly edge of Denison. Poles, Slavs and Russians comprise about 80% of area's residents. General maintenance of properties is fair to poor. In addition to the noise, smoke and dirt from abutting heavy industries, the area also suffers from obnoxious odors emanating from the glue factory, soap factory and tannery which are located along the southeasterly border of area. Age, obsolescence, adjacency to industry and foreign concentration makes this a weak third grade area; will become fourth grade in few years although this has been a stable, fully-settled community for a long time.
All types of middle class workers; some professional & small business owners Cosmopolitan Slow foreign infiltration from downtown west side This medium old section is the original location of Brooklyn Village and first lay between Broadview and Pearl Rd. and later expanded along both sides of Pearl Rd. and, fairly recently, east of Broadview. Lots in this area range from 35 ft. frontage between Pearl and Broadview, to 45 ft. frontage west of Pearl Rd., and 40-45 ft. frontage east of Broadview. Development first began about 40 years ago, principally of single homes. Within past 25 years the two-family house became popular and is now scattered in groups of two and three throughout this section. The finer homes in area are located west of Pearl along Spokane, Brooklyn, Woburn and Bucyrus Avenues and east of Broadview off Valley Rd. The advantages are its close location to downtown area; transportation, schools and shopping facilities along Pearl Rd. hold the popularity of this section. Owner occupancy ratio in two-family homes, although relatively low, is not due to unwilling home ownership but the thrifty investment of individual owners who rent these properties and live elsewhere. Residents are stable and future of this 85% built up area should remain unchanged, except for gradual obsolescence of older properties. That portion of area east of Broadview Rd. and Valley Rd. should improve with additional construction activities and Jennings Rd. project in this easterly portion will speed development because of added rapid traffic connection with downtown.
Moderate income mechanics - White-collared - Craftsmen German - Hungarian Occupants of 3rd grade area to north slowly moving here. This area is a continuation of the development of the older Brooklyn Village section lying to the north and began about 1922, principally along Pearl Rd. Later, development spread to the east centering around State Rd. and now is proceeding in the easterly portion lying along Broadview. Lots in this area average 40 ft. frontage and range in depth from 120 ft. to 140 ft. Construction has been fairly uniform throughout, mostly of the two-story single-family type, although there is a scattering of two-family homes throughout. The most desirable streets in this 65% built up area are Archmere, west of Pearl, and the two easterly sections off State and Broadview Rds. The more desirable two-family homes are located in the central section off Pearl Rd. The least desirable street (Flowerdale) in this area lies in the extreme southwestern portion and is developed with cheap homes (some remodeled) shacks and old farm houses. This area has all utilities; the portion off State Rd. (east of W. 32nd) is the only part of this area that is not paved but has graded streets and sidewalks. Future for this area "should continue to hold its own" and development will be normal. Jennings Rd. project will also influence this section favorably (new thoroughfare short-cut to downtown). Area is fairly convenient to stores, schools and churches (mostly along Pearl Rd.).
White-collared; Factory workers; Laborers Bohemian - Italian Slow influx of Bohemians and Italians This area is 35% built up; 80% of streets paved; trees along most streets; average lot front 40 ft.; good transportation - by bus on Pearl Rd. and by street car on Brook Park Rd.; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Better homes are located along Luella, Velma, LaVerne and Bradley. There is a light scattering of very cheap homes throughout area. Foreclosures, due to extremely heavy assessments, were quite numerous in the area up to about 2 years ago. (Some 30 properties located on Theota Ave. alone were acquired by institutions). The respread of assessments (1937) helped correct this situation somewhat. At present, foreclosures here are no heavier than elsewhere. Mortgage funds are available up to 70% with the exception of the northwest section where loans are limited to 40-50% sue to unpaved streets and lack of utilities on all streets up to W. 78th St.; all utilities installed in all other parts of area. On the whole, future development will be slow. The area is accorded a third grade rating.
Factory workers - laborers Slavish - Hungarian - Polish of mixed foreign-laboring type This area (located east of State Rd.) is 35% built up; 20% paved streets; 80% dirt roads; bus transportation along Broadview and State Rds; average lot front 40 ft. Ravines (shown blank on map) all through the central part and east of South Blvd; Broadview (main thoroughfare) on the east section of the area is on a steep hill (Chestnut Hill); dead-end streets east of Broadview and south of Rockside. Fifteen percent of the homes in this area are of the two-family type and these are scattered along State Road. Single homes average $3750; much cheaper homes (including some shacks) located on the center of the area along Wales, Grantwood and Lucerne. Unpaved streets and presence of cheap cottages and shacks in center of area create sales resistance. Activity has been dormant for several years. However, at present, a few speculators are tying up lots for the purpose of building houses and offering them for sale. Deal now pending on George Ave. covering 40 lots. Loans available up to 40-70% of appraisal, depending upon whether property is located on paved street and also on its immediate surroundings. The rather high vacancy ratio, presence of shacks and unpaved streets makes this a third grade area. Informed realtor states that rental income above $35 per month even for best properties is difficult to obtain.
Laborers - Quarry workers Poles & Slavs This area is 60% built up; Adams Street is paved - all others, slag and cinder; narrow streets; lots 50 ft.x125 to 150 ft. All utilities installed except that southwest section has no sewer facilities; 15 minute walk to nearest bus or car line; very convenient to schools, churches and stores. This is a very old neighborhood; (few homes 100 years old). A large quarry is located in southwestern part of area; abutting it, are several shacks housing some of the quarry workers. Some of the old homes are being torn down to make way for the Metropolitan Park System improvement along southern boundary of area; this improvement will naturally enhance the general appearance of the area and should tend to stabilize sales and rental prices somewhat. On the whole, however, and because of its age, location of quarry and present appearance, the area is accorded a weak third grade rating.
Business men; white collared; factory workers - This is part of H. A. Stahl's allotment and one of the newer residential sections in Parma. All one-family homes; area is 25% built up; 20% paved streets; average lot front - 40 ft. (a few 50 ft. lots in southern part of area); level terrain up to Ridgewood and rising south thereof; good transportation; all utilities installed; fairly clean neighborhood throughout; 10 new homes ($5500) constructed here during past 12 months. Not over 3 or 4 "cheap" cottages in entire area. Section south of Ridgewood is newer and only 5% built up; some very fine homes along State Rd. Improved bus transportation on State Rd. (along eastern boundary) will benefit this section. Real estate brokers are confident this area will see better activity during next 5 years. The area is accorded a third grade rating.
White-collared - mechanics - Subdivision laid out about 12 years ago; now 10% built up; 10% streets paved, others dirt and slag; average lot front 40-50 ft.; level to slowly rolling terrain; no utilities with exception of electricity; building restrictions very weak; fair transportation (Pearl Rd. bus). Good bit of available land much closer in and for this reason development of this area will be very slow for some time, also no demand here will be evident until transportation is improved and all utilities installed. Homes scattered all over area - one or two homes on a street. No new construction within past year. Area is accorded a weak third grade rating.
Mechanics - few white collared - This section was allotted in 1924-25 at the time of Greater Cleveland's rapid expansion program; still only 10-15% built up; lots range from 40 to 100 ft. frontage; 10% streets paved - remainder, slag and dirt; level topography; gas, light and water installed or available with the exception of the eastern section (east of Homewood). Newer homes are on Greenleaf (built around 1930). Poor transportation (suburban bus only); school bus transportation to schools; one parochial school located in extreme northern part of area, north of Pearl Rd. No new construction for past 8 years with exception of one home on Parma Blvd.; chief deterrent are: poor transportation, lack of convenient store and shopping facilities, plus the fact that there is yet too much land closer in and more attractive for home building. Predicted price trend will remain firm, only because present owners are disinclined to sell at a sacrifice. On the whole, activity will remain more or less dormant for next five years at least. Area is accorded a weak third grade rating.
Laborers - factory workers - mechanics - some railroad men Cosmopolitan This area sprung up during the war period boom and was laid out about 1917 into lots with 40 ft. frontage, ranging in depth from 100 to 130 ft. Home development here was heaviest during the period from 1917 to 1926 and has been dormant since 1928, except for a small scattering of homes about 4-5 years ago east of W. 73rd where properties are slightly better than portion of area west of W. 73rd where properties are slightly better than portion of area west of W. 73rd. Houses are of standard "cigar box" type, store-and-a-half frame with uniform setback and area is now about 25-30% built up. Lots originally sold from $350 to $500 now can be obtained at, roughly, $100 to $150. All utilities are available but not connected to many houses in the western part; only paved roads in area are Vandalia and Ira (cement) and Biddulph (macadam); others have sidewalks and dirt streets. The absence of construction activity, distance to stores, churches and transportation, plus cheapness of homes will continue to hold this area at its weak third grade classification.
Factory workers Bohemian - Polish - Russian Higher type of foreign descent This 3rd grade area had its first home development about 35 yrs. ago on rather narrow lots (33' frontage) and is now approx. 50% built up. Streets are unpaved (oil treated) but are graded and have cement sidewalks; all utilities installed. This community, through the depression hard hit by unemployment, presented a rather shoddy appearance due to lack of maintenance but within the last 24 months has seen a 25% improvement because of considerable repairing and remodeling. Area has had no new construction since the depression. The industrial area, abutting west boundary of area, formerly housed the Interstate Plant which moved from area and caused considerable unemployment to residents of this section, many of whom lost their homes by foreclosure. Most all of these properties have been resold to second generation of Bohemian, Russian, Polish and Hungarian stock. Transportation in area is poor, but schools, stores and churches are located within area. The industrial plant abutting west boundary has been purchased by several small companies which provide employment to residents of this area. No program of new construction is anticipated for this section but it should remain stable for the next few years. The northerly portion of area, east of Broadway along Pinecrest Dr. and Edgecliff was an attempted subdivision in the $10,000-$15,000 bracket which failed because of neighborhood disadvantages (proximity to cheaper homes on south side of highway - fumes and smoke from distillery to north and inability of promoters to carry subdivision). Approx. 5 of these more expensive homes ($10,000-15,000) front on park abutting north boundary.
Factory workers - white-collared - merchants - some professional Polish - Italian - Bohemian This area embraces the major portion of Bedford. Its development first began along Broadway Ave. and dates back almost 100 yrs. in that portion between Columbus and Solon Rds. in the southerly part. Many homes (lots 40'x125') in this fully built-up part of area avg. 70-80 yrs. The northwest portion of area is developed about 20% (lots 50'x185') with homes - avg. age 14 yrs.; streets unpaved, about 35% developed (solid west of Nordham - east of Nordham very light - street unpaved here). The easterly portion of area (south of Columbus Rd.) is developed only about 15% (lots 50'x200'), streets unpaved, all utilities available; homes avg. age 15 yrs. The occupants of this area are predominantly of American stock but during "war boom" period, factories imported foreigners, many of whom live in the easterly portion of area. Community, as a whole has remained stable for many years and will remain unchanged. Construction will be light - of the small 4-5 rm. single type in the $4000-5000 bracket principally in the easterly and northwesterly portions of area. This area embraces the entire commercial district of Bedford lying along Broadway but concentrated between Columbus and Monroe.
Factory - Mill - Office workers Polish - Italian - Bohemian This 3rd grade neighborhood consists of two developments, distinctly separated by difference in age. Portion of area lying along the railroad tracks consists of a development of large old homes dating back some 70 yrs. - many of which have been converted into multiple family utility. The balance of area lay dormant for many years suffering from lack of outlet, except to the east across railroad tracks. Later opening of Corkhill Rd., on the westerly portion of area, stimulated construction activity prior to the depression. These small homes avg. 15 yrs. (majority of lots 50'x200'); streets unpaved, all utilities available, except gas in southwesterly projection. Although area has lain dormant since the depression, it is believed the recent extension of Turney Rd. from 3rd grade area to the west connecting with Corkhill Rd. in this area will stimulate construction activity in the moderate-priced ($4000-5000) small home group.
Laborers Slavish Stable - some abandonment of cheap cottages This area, lying immediately south of the Maple Heights railroad yards lies on both sides of Dunham Rd. and the southeastern portion is known as the Corkhill Section. Original development began about 15-18 years ago but lacked proper control and uniform restrictions which resulted in spotty development such as garage structures on rear of lot by laborers with small earning power. The section north of Turney Rd. is more sparsely developed and consists of better type homes than that portion south of Turney Rd. (Corkhill). The recent trend has been the abandonment of the cheap, cottage garage type homes partially due to condemnation by Maple Heights officials. The area on the whole, however, is desirable from a renting standpoint, although practically no building activity has occurred in the past 7-8 years. The Corkhill Section consists of slightly cheaper homes and development here is about 18%. Lots in the whole area average about 40 ft.x120 ft. and, at the present time, can be bought for $200 to $500. Approximately 15% of the streets are paved, principally such thoroughfares as Turney Rd., Rockside and Dunham. However, the northwest area bounded by Rockside and Dunham is paved; other streets in the area are graded and slagged. Majority of streets have sidewalks; all utilities available in area except for gas. Transportation is only fair- half hour schedule during rush, on the hour normal. This area, although near to railroad yards, does not suffer to a large extent from dirt and soot due to prevailing southwesterly winds. On the whole, little improvement or change is looked for until the more desirable parts of Maple Heights become built up. Vacant lots are practically all owned by realtors. Area is fairly level and unwooded.
Mill and factory workers - also laborers Bohemian - Hungarian Slow influx of 2nd generation of foreign descent This area known as Maple Grove was platted about 30 yrs. ago and is the oldest section in Maple Heights. Lots average 40'x132' and have been developed about 85% with mostly 1 1/2 story frame houses. All utilities are in but only Granger Rd. is paved; balance of streets have sidewalks and are well graded and slagged. The area is fairly level but slopes downward along the N.E. border to the railroad tracks. Schools and stores are located in area but churches are approx. 1 mile to the east. The original occupants of this community came here during the World War "boom" and were predominantly foreign mill and factory workers. At one time the community's reputation was somewhat blighted by cases of vandalism but within the past 8 yrs. an influx of better type young people of second generation foreign descent has somewhat rejuvenated the desirability of this section. No new construction has occurred since the depression of 1929 but realtor reports that several homes were remodeled by liquidating institutions for new purchasers. Area has one colored family but local authorities are endeavoring to obtain a removal. Future of this community appears stable at present but no active construction is anticipated here until more desirable areas of Maple Heights are fully developed.
Factory workers - white collared - foreign Slavish of Second Generation This 3rd grade area's development (40' frontage lots) dates back to about 30 yrs. in the section along Broadway west of Lee Rd.; the easterly projections to the north and south (15-18 yrs. old) of abutting 2nd grade area consist of sparse scattered cheap development (southern projection mostly vacant land). The westerly portion of area is fairly well built up, but area as a whole is only developed 10%. All streets are paved and utilities in with the exception of the easterly projections which lack gas and have a few graded slag streets with cement sidewalks. Main arteries for this area are Broadway and Lee Rd. (westerly part), Libby and Raymond (east-west). A concentration of approx. eight 2-family homes are located on Paine Ave. (Near Broadway). Balance of area contains only a few 2-family houses. Schools, churches, stores and transportation (15 min. rush - half hour normal) are convenient to westerly part of area but distant to easterly projections of area. Future development in this area will be slow and will be located principally in the western part near Broadway and Lee Rd. because of proximity to transportation and other facilities. Development in this area is mostly of 1 1/2 sty. dwellings, cheap homes, and some cottages. Commercial district lies on Broadway and at the intersection of Lee and Libby Rds. On the whole, future development in this area will, probably, be of better type homes than those present as indicated by the slight construction during the past 3 yrs. However future for area will be uncertain until the abutting 15% built up 2nd grade neighborhood is heavily developed.
Factory workers and laborers Polish Old Polish families remain intact but younger generation moving out to various parts of Cleveland district. This is one of the older original Polish sections of Berea built around St. Adelbert's Parish and School. A community settlement. Area is now 85% built up. This area has seen its "best days" and is slowly shrinking in population; the old residents remain, but the younger generation is locating elsewhere in more desirable sections. Good transportation. Convenient to schools, churches, and stores. Three streets are paved - remainder conder and slag. Catholic cemetery located on north end of Berea Street. Properties on Rocky Street (westerly boundary) suffer from smoke and dirt from railroad. Trend is slowly downward. The age and general appearance of this area plus its shifting population makes it a weak third grade area.
Mostly factory workers - clerks (few office workers & minor officials) Polish - Czechs This area was laid out about '23-'24 into lots 40'x125' but development has never taken - at present the area is only about 2% built up. Most of development lies in part north of Granger - balance of area is only lightly spotted with homes, principally small homes with garden plots. However, a few nice homes in the $6000-7000 class are located farther south along Turney Rd. - also 7 homes (8-9 yrs. old) on Grannis Ave. at Turney Rd. in $7000 class. Transportation is along Turney Rd. About 15% of streets are paved; utilities are limited south of Granger but available east of Turney on the following streets: Tonsing, Willard, Darlington, Grannis, Havana and Littleton. Grade school for area is located on west side of Turney at Grannis, Parochial school located on Granger and church. Lutheran school and church are located at Turney and Granger. Future of area (no detrimental influence except lack of restrictions) is largely dependent on rate of garfield Heights growth. At present, there is little, if any, demand to locate here.
Factory workers - some office workers (white collared) Polish - Bohemian - Italian Hardly any - mostly same type coming in This section was developed along Garfield Blvd. about 1921, and is now about 65% built up with mixed singles and doubles. Lots average 40'x120' - about 85% of streets are paved - those unpaved lie principally south of Garfield Blvd. (Reed - E. 94th & E. 96th) where development is sparse. Eastern boundary of area fronting contains Garfield Heights grade and high schools. Area abutting Plymouth back to E. 93rd contains a 30 acre undeveloped parcel. This area is classified in third grade principally because of spotty development (mixed singles and doubles) and large percentage of "Jerry-building". Those cheaply constructed homes are the oldest in neighborhood, built by the realty company that developed this area for speculative purposes. Institutions had and still have a rather large number of properties. It appears, although they are not cutting "list" prices, they will accept up to 10% loss. Opinion of local realtors is that new construction will avoid this area is preference to that lying farther south.
Factory and shop workers - some laborers Bohemian - Polish This partly wooded hilly section is developed about 10% and homes are concentrated mostly along Dressler Rd., Forestdale and area south to Broadway - balance of area (north of Dressler to Granwood Blvd. and part of east of E. 143rd) is undeveloped. Lots range from 40' to 120' to 1/2 acre parcels and follow no uniform pattern - area platting consisted of only street block sections - most of restrictions have expired. Forestdale (area boundary) is the only paved street except for E. 131st St. Northwesterly part of area abutting Calvary Cemetery is a gravel and sandpit. Utilities are available only on Forestdale, Dressler, E. 135th St., Valleyview, E. 143rd and Cranwood Blvd. Grade school is located at Dressler & E. 135th St. Other conveniences such as shopping center, churches and transportation lie in area to the north along E. 131st. Future for area's improvement is uncertain and depends on speculative development which at present has no interest in this section. However, presence of many renovised farm houses (on southwest boundary of Broadway Ave.) and lack of uniformity in lot size will probably withhold this area from ever being a second grade neighborhood, particularly in view of negro settlement abutting area on the northeast.
Low income workers - rather heavy relief rolls Cosmopolitan Change of ownership occurring, to same type inhabitants This 10-15% built up area was a poorly restricted subdivision that failed almost at its inception some 20 years ago and has remained more or less dormant since that time. Area suffers from lack of uniformity in construction, many 4-room garage-like homes, lack of uniform set-back, lack of improvements; such as: street paving and sewer except on main artery - Lee Rd. and two streets in the northerly portion; namely: Langley and Lipton. Balance of area has sidewalks and dirt streets. Water and electric is available to area but gas is not and sewage is of cesspool type. This area has a scattering of colored families in western part , a moderately heavy foreign occupancy and American inhabitants are of very low income type heavily on relief rolls. Real estate sales activity has been moderately fair due to cheapness of housing and the earnest desire of unwilling property holders to unload for reasonable offer. The school district for this section lies in 3rd grade area immediately to the north and is also attended by the heavy colored settlement abutting this section on the west boundary. Area's future is not favorable. This section, formerly part of Miles Hts, was annexed by Cleveland in 1932, and the city has been reluctant to improve the streets because of the apparent inability of the occupants to pay for the assessment. Langley and Lipton Aves in northern part of area, are more fully developed. Balance of area is mostly scattered and future development will be very slow, if at all, during the next 3 to 5 years.
White collar - mill foremen - public service - professional Czech - Polish Miles Ave., the east-west artery for this area, was a well known thoroughfare 40-45 years ago but this area's development as a residential section, although now 98% built up, didn't gain impetus until about 35 years ago. Large 7-9 rm. singles of frame and brick were built along Miles Ave. first and average 25 yrs. in age. The side streets are developed with, mostly, standard 6 rm. singles rather heavily mixed with two-family dwellings. This area has been very stable due to good schools and transportation; 2nd generation of original owners in many cases have stayed and purchased homes. This is virtually an individual solid American community of Welsh-German-Irish stock except for a small scattering of Czech and Polish along Hlavin, Hoy and Beachwood between E. 124th and E. 135th. The southern boundary abutts the desirable 2nd grade Cranwood section and also the large E. 116th St., the other at E. 131st St. The future for this 3rd grade-plus area should continue to remain stable for the next few years.
Public Service - Tradesmen - Mechanics Bohemian - Irish - Welsh Negligible - only in northwest part and very slowly This better grade workingman's district now 90% built up was a natural growth - the last development inside the limits of Cleveland proper in this direction - and received immediate occupancy by public service men (by law enforced to live in city limits). Inhabitants in this area are of better type 2nd generation of foreign stock from the heavily populated 4th grade area to the north. Catholic Church immediately to north is stabilizing influence on holding this occupancy. However the lack of proper restrictions allowed the intermingled construction of two-family with single dwellings, which although well kept in most cases penalize the values of abutting singles. Desirability of this area as a workingman's district is strong because of its proximity to downtown and nearby industry. Stability of income of inhabitants has kept foreclosures low and properties for sale have found a ready market. The northwestern projection of area is oldest (homes average 25 yrs.) while the southern part is newer (homes average 15 yrs.) The only part of area left for development is in the southeastern corner - east of Turney Rd. Future of area will be stable for the next 3-5 yrs.
Steel & Aluminum Co. workers (mostly salaried) - Some professional Czech & Polish - New home purchasers are American This good 3rd grade neighborhood comprises all of the Village of Newburgh Hts. with the exception of that small part of the 4th grade area between the Park and Harvard Grove Cemetery, consisting of Brow Ave. and southerly projection of E. 52nd, E. 53rd, E. 54th Sts. The area lies on a plateau separated from the 4th grade area to the north and east bu a picturesque park-ravine. Home development in this 85% built-up neighborhood first began about 1915 and was very heavy until 1921, became dormant until 1924, and then proceeded steadily until 1929. After 1929 area again lay dormant until within the last 18 mos. when new construction of single homes started (all owner-contracted). This area's development (both 2-families and singles) has been of sound construction, but lack of proper restrictions has permitted the intermingling of singles ( 1 1/2 & 2-story types) with 2-family structures. With the exception of the small southwesterly corner, homes have been well-kept and area, in informed realtor's opinion, has a very high ratio of unincumbered properties. Newburgh's very favorable financial condition (free of debt) and low tax rate are strong selling points for this section. Public transportation is good - Washington Park Blvd. to downtown; Harvard Ave. for crosstown service. Employment is nearby to the south and west (American Steel, U.S. Aluminum Co., & Republic Steel). Most occupants of this area are long-service and salaried employees. Area lacks shopping center, has only elementary grade school and depends on Cleveland for its fire protection (high insurance rate). The new homes (constructed in past 18 mos.) were built on Washington Rk. Blvd. The area's trend of desirability will remain stable for the next several years.
Tradesmen - Craftsmen - Steel workers - Some professional Polish (strong family ties) This fully built-up 3rd grade neighborhood had its first home development about 50 yrs. ago along its thoroughfares - Fleet Ave., E. 65th St., and E. 71st St. Most lots have from 30-35' frontage, with the exception of 40' lots on Fleet Ave. (east of E. 65th St.). Single-family homes range from the small 4 room 1-story long type on the side streets to the large 2-story 6-8 rm. frames on Fleet Ave. and Lansing (east of E. 65th St.). Standard 2-family structures are scattered throughout area but predominate on the following streets: Sebert and Chambers (east of E. 65th St.); Lansing (west of E. 65th St.) and Indiana and Ottawa (here 15-20 yrs. old). An approximate 10% of the structures in this area consist of long 1-story singles converted into 2-family utility (1 bathroom) along such streets as: Fullerton, Hosmer, and Gertrude. Commercial development lies on E. 65th St. and on Fleet Ave. between E. 61st and E. 65th Sts. This area has remained stable and fully occupied for many years. Occupants, totally Polish or Polish descent, are of home-loving type held here by strong family and social ties. The very large churches and parochial schools (St. Stanislaus and Church of the Immaculate Heart) are located in area. The proximity of area to the new South High School, between E. 74th and E. 75th Sts. in abutting 4th grade area, adds to the stability of this section. The future trend of this area will remain stable for the next several years.
Factory workers - Mechanics - Some office workers - Craftsmen Better type Hungarian & Czech Second generation of foreign descent into new homes This area, formerly part of Miles Heights and Warrensville Heights, was a premature development started about 20 years ago and laid out into lots ranging from 40-45 ft. frontage and now built up about 20%. Most of this area has lain dormant for approximately 10 years, principally due to only fair fire protection, poor transportation and high assessment on paved streets (50% in area), particularly Judson Blvd. However, within the last year there has been some building activity in the southeastern part known as City Allotment. A small scattering of two family houses are located in area. The northern part, east of Lee Rd., is unpaved as is most of the southwestern part and better development lies in the southeastern and northwestern parts. Within the past year many lots have been put up for sale by Sheriff for taxes. Assessments will expire within the next year and in many instances respread will probably be necessary. School facilities for this district are only one grade school which is also heavily attended by colored children from 4th grade area - D-10. Stores for this area are located at the intersection of Lee Rd. and Miles. Church and high school facilities are distant. Fire and police protection for area are patrolled by units two miles distant, located at E. 131st. This area's future appears more favorable due to some building activity within the past year but on the whole, no large amount of construction is anticipated for the next 3 to 5 years.
Factory workers- White-collared-Mechanics- Craftsmen Czech-Polish-Slavish Strong pressure from north by Jewish & Italians This large residential area, heavily populated by second generation of Bohemian descent, began its first development in the west part about 25 years ago and its central and eastern park about 20 years ago, with the exception of East Blvd (in western part) which was platted and sold 15 years ago. Popularity of this section was strong and development was rapid both in single-family and two-family structures (scattered throughout area). Lots in western part average 35 ft. frontage, except EAst Blvd. which average 45-50 ft.; balance of area has average lot frontage of 40 ft. Homes throughout area are of standard two-story gable type and area is now about 90% built up. This section has excellent transportation, church, stre and school facilities (four grade and three junior high schools). All streets are paved and assessments are paid up. Adverse influence to this area, however, is its attractiveness to Jewish, Italian and colored residents in 4th grade area immediately to the north who have maintained constant pressure to get into this section. Their infiltration, although strongly resisted, has partly succeeded, principally south along E. 142, 143, 144, and 146th Sts. (by colored) and by Italian along E. 116th, 117th, and 118th Sts. to the south (these streets now part of 4th grade area to the north). Main shopping center for this area lies along E. 131st and E. 116th running through central portion of area. Sale of property on small down payment in this area has found a ready market and considerable dealing in property by individuals is going on.
Small business men and white-collared This subdivision was laid out 15 years ago. Built up only 5%; average lot front 50 feet; cinder and slag streets; all utilities installed - are located at end of city water line and hydrants, unless flushed each week, cause discoloration of water due to corrosion. The few properties located along the easterly boundary suffer from smoke and dirt from N.Y.C. and Big Four railroads running parallel with area. The area is badly located. Its severest drawback is that school children have to cross ten railroad tracks to reach nearest school. The Metropolitan Park System improvement immediately to the west of the area should enhance values to some extent when the project is completed. For the present, however, the area offers little hope for improvement. Activity is nil. No new construction during past 2 years. Average price of lot $100 to $300 - formerly $800 to $1000. Fifty percent of vacant lots are individually owned and there generally carry some tax delinquency. The adjacency to railroads; the hazardous rail crossings and the general prolonged inactivity of this section makes it at best, a weak third grade area.
Small business owners - Tradesmen - Wholesale & retail workers Russian - Jewish Steadily to Jewish - Strong pressure by Negroes from west With the exception of the northwestern part (where development began about 25 yrs. ago), the balance of this area was a "mushroom growth" heavy with 2-families occurring about 15 yrs., principally of "jerry-builders" and has resulted in heavy foreclosures and institutional ownership of properties. Occupancy here began with an extremely heavy infiltration of Russian-Jewish from the downtown 4th grade area around Woodland-55th between the years of 1920-30. The older 4th grade area lying to the west has steadily moved east into this section due to the colored encroachment in that 4th grade area, which also threatens this section although exclusion of Negro occupancy has been restricted to the 4th grade area as shown on map. The cheapness of construction has tended to increase the lack of property maintenance, also partly characteristic of the area. Lots in this area average 40' frontage and are developed about 70%. However, such streets as E. 147th & E. 149th are undeveloped except for the immediate vicinity of Kinsman (main thoroughfare and business center). Future for this section appears stable for only a short period due to present real estate conditions but all to appearances the pressure from advancing Negro and Italian infiltration into abutting 4th grade territory will, no doubt, spread into this section, although present western boundary of this area now marks the extent of their eastward movement.
Factory workers - Machinists - Craftsmen - Some office workers Hungarian -Slavish This area lies on a gradual slope rising to the east and leveling off at E. 117th St. Development in this area proceeded from western boundary to the east about 30 yrs. ago into lots ranging from 35' to 45' frontage and has become one of the better heavily populated Hungarian and Slavish neighborhoods, now 100% built up, with a higher percentage of 2-family homes than singles. The stability of neighborhood is held by the advantages of proximity to industry lying to the west, the Woodland Hills Park (south boundary), churches, social buildings, schools and good transportation. The area's main arteries are the heavily trafficked Buckeye Rd. and E. 116th St. and East Blvd. The congestion of area, total development, age of property, heavy mixture of 2-families and heavy foreign occupancy rate this area no more than 3rd grade but its stability will hold for several years due to the strong home-owning character of residents and area's advantages mentioned above. Several large apartments are located in northern part abutting University Circle and a few are located in southwestern part abutting St. Luke's Hospital.
White-collared - Skilled mechanics - Some professional - Small business owners Better type of Bohemian & Italian Slow influx of Slavish & Hungarian from south This area, lying above downtown Cleveland and sloping upward to the east, was developed first 30 yrs. ago in the southern part as a Bohemian section surrounding its Catholic church and school. The northern part of area follows the ravine abutting the higher plateau of Cleveland Hts. and the college building area at the intersection of Euclid & E. 107th St. The home development has reached 85% and is virtually solid except for the portion consisting of E. 120th, E. 124 and E. 126th south of Fairmount which contains a heavy percentage of good 2-family structures built about 15 yrs. ago and still has a rather large number of vacant lots. Although area suffered in depreciation of prices from the depression, the building of the large St. Luke's Hospital in southwestern part has stabilized values there, due to housing demand for nurses and hospital workers. Proximity of this area (northern part) abutting the city's second largest business and theatre district at Euclid-105th, plus school facilities and rapid transit service on Shaker Blvd. (area's southern boundary) will hold this area stable for many years. The Italian residents of neighborhood came to this section from the 4th grade area, lying to the west, between 1920-30 but their infiltration in the past 9 yrs. has been negligible. The present slow infiltration of better type Hungarian from third grade area to the south is also negligible but of more consistency due to the pressure caused by congestion in that area.
College students - Some teachers - Musicians - Public Service & office workers Italian Increasing occupancy of students attending nearby colleges The majority of this area, formerly owned by the Wade Estate, was cut up into large parcels and developed with expensive mansions beginning about 1905 for the occupancy of wealthy families who moved here from the old ultra-fashioned Euclid Ave. district due to their being crowded out by encroaching business. From 1920 death blows to this area's values were: encircling heavy foreign infiltration into abutting areas, principally Russian-Jewish into section to the northeast; and most important, the almost total migration of wealthy families in this area to the exclusive Shaker Heights subdivision between 1920-30. Then too, original restrictions to residential use on Wade allotments are at expiration point now. Virtually 90% of the original owners of these large homes have moved from this section. This has had a detrimental effect also on the market value of smaller single-family homes which are located in the northerly portion of area. Because of the proximity of these large homes to the college buildings abutting south boundary, many of them have been converted into rooming houses, boarding houses and small educational institutions in themselves, such as: music schools, art schools and fraternity houses. At present it is estimated these fine homes, some costing $300,000, now bring 10 or less on the original dollar cost. Exorbitant maintenance prevents ready rental of these large homes but, in many cases, owners have made nominal leases for educational or institutional use. Properties in the northern part abutting the park do not follow in this latter class but because of their obsolescence, size, and large lots have been thrown into this category. Property values in area will, eventually, stabilize for the smaller single family homes with the absorption of large homes now on the market. The beautiful park abutting this fully built up section enhances the possibility of this area becoming an exclusive apartment site (one solid block of apartments now located on East Blvd. between Ashbury and Superior.)
Skilled mechanics - Tradesmen & Craftsmen - Some German-Irish Predominantly Polish - Some German and Irish Slow infiltration of Polish from 4th grade areas on west. This area contains a large foreign population (predominantly Polish) of strong church-going, lome-loving character. The concentration of Catholic churches and schools in this area have had a stabilizing influence on values and continue to hold strangely the heavy occupancy of this group. Pride of ownership is particularly noticeable in driving throughout area; within the rather limited income of the inhabitants, a larger percentage of modernization, renovation and care of grounds is more evident here than in some areas 10-15 years younger. The informed realtor's opinion is that mortgage collections here are very favorable and loans on limited basis of appraisal are being satisfactorily made. The commercial district for area lies along Wade Park and Superior, principally at the intersections of E. 71st and E. 82nd on Superior. The two-family structures are scattered in groups of 6 to 10 throughout area, mostly along E. 71st and E. 79th. Single-family structures are, in many cases, of the small long one-floor plan type. Community has its native characteristic of many fenced-in lots, some of ornamental iron, others of well-kept and painted paling type. Future for area should remain stable with little change, except the gradual obsolescence of properties due to age. Change in population would only result in the occupancy of property by Polish upon vacancy by American stock. This area is virtually 100% built up.
Small business men - White-collared - Clerks Russian - Jewish This small section, now fully built up, began about 25 years ago along with development of the business section at Superior & E. 125th St. Its construction was of sound, large single homes east of Lakeview now largely home owned, properties debt-free. Portion of area west of Lakeview, principally along E. 113th & E. 114th, contains a rather heavy concentration of 2-family "up and down" homes in which Jewish occupancy is fairly heavy. Community, as a whole, has remained stable despite the gradual encroachment of surrounding 4th grade areas due to size and value of properties here. Rentals in area are very good and future for area should remain stable for the next several years; area is convenient to all facilities.
Small merchants - Tradesmen - White collared & skilled mechanics Jewish Strong influx of Jewish-also spreading to north This third grade area's development varies considerably both in age and size of lots and structures. Earliest development began in the eastern portion between E. 128th and the railroad with small 5 room homes on lots ranging from 30-35' frontage and 75-80' depth now worth $3200-3600. The northern part of area in the small section formed by Sellers Ave. and Eddy Rd. was developed about 25 yrs. ago with small single homes and an occasional small two family home on 35'x90' lots now worth $4200-$4600 (singles) $5500-$6000 (two family). Balance of area was developed 15-20 years ago, predominantly with singles north of Gray Ave. to St. Clair and heavily mixed with two families (lots 40'x125') south of Brackland west of E. 128th, now worth $6000 to $6500 except Thornhill Dr. which is solidly built up with large 6 rm. suite two families on 50'x150' lots in the $8500 to $9000 class. A heavy influx of Jewish 2nd & 3rd generations began in the southern part of this section (so. of Brackland and east of E. 128th) between 1920-30 and has continued steadily from that time. Balance of area is predominantly American with mixture of 2nd generation foreign) except for small concentration of Jewish no.of St. Clair on E. 115th, E. 117th and E. 118th. Property values have remained stable since recovery from depression lows about 1935 and future trend appears favorable, although the probability of continued Jewish infiltration may have a detrimental effects. However, the location of Lutheran and Catholic churches in northern part will tend to arrest this infiltration due to their hold on property owners in their parish.
Tradesmen - small merchants Cosmopolitan This stable fully built up community was platted into lots ranging 38-40' frontage with depth of 110', some 25 years ago, and was built up as one sub-division with fairly uniform price class of single family homes intermingled with well constructed two family homes, except Woodworth Ave. (southern boundary) where the majority of the buildings are from 4-12 suite apartments. Northwesterly boundary or area is solid commercial along the main artery St. Clair Ave. Occupants of this neighborhood are of stable lower-middle class type and area should remain unchanged for the next few years with no anticipated foreign infiltration.
Factory workers; Laborers, Office Clerks -$900-2000 income German - Hungarian (2nd generation) This area known as the Hayden Section was developed about 25 years ago on 40 ft. front lots and is now approximately 97% built up. The desirability of area is based primarily on its access to nearby industries such as the Fisher Body Plant, National Acme, Willard Storage Battery, etc. (within walking distance to transportation, schools and churches). The detrimental influence to the area is the fact that it is hemmed in by the Belt Line RR (west boundary) and the N.Y.C. RR (southeast boundary). Apartments in area are principally located along first, Second, and Third Streets and along Woodworth Rd. and Hayden Ave. The business district for this area is located principally at the intersection of Shaw and Hayden. Retail district lies mostly along Hayden ave. Triangular section formed by Hayden - Shaw and N.Y.C. RR has the slightest concentration of two family dwellings. Other two family dwellings are scattered in the section north of Shaw but east of Hayden except that no "two-families" are located on Elmwood, Hampton and Shawview on this part. The low income of factory workers who predominantly occupy this area, has caused a rental situation here adverse to the holding of investment property. Loss of time and general unemployment (recent strike at Fisher Body Plant) has been a deterrent to a fair rental. Sales are weak not because of desire, but lack of accumulated savings by tenants for down payment.
Laborers, Clerks, Factory Workers Italian (predominantly) Slow - (Italian on Euclid to north) Known as the Euclid thoroughfare section, this area was developed in the southern part approximately 33 years ago with the rapid expansion of Cleveland along Euclid. The area south of Euclid Ave. is developed, approximately, with 90% singles, 10% 2-4 family and a few large apartments. The area north of Euclid Ave. is developed with 20% single family and 80% 2-4 family and almost solidly of apartments between Doan and Taylor Rd. Commercial property is spotted along both sides of Euclid Ave. throughout the entire area but is concentrated heaviest between Lockwood and Fay, and, Stanwood and Richmond, and at Taylor Rd., and particularly, at Ivanhoe. This area has a rather large relief roll and also has a rapid fluctuation in vacancy ratio. The pressure of commercial growth detrimentally affects residential property abutting Euclid Ave. and the proximity to the Belt Line RR tracks has always been undesirable. Area about 98% built up. The influx of Italian occupants from the south, although slow, will eventually constitute a large percentage of the population and will, no doubt, continue more rapidly with age and obsolescence of property and its decreasing value. The older properties lie south of Euclid between Mt. Union and Noble Rd. However, the cheapest and oldest property lies in the small section north of Euclid between Fay and Holyoke. The general spottiness of development, age and obsolescence of property and growth of commercial district places this area in the slowly declining group. The northeast boundary of area abuts the large Nela Park industrial plants of General Electric Co- A large number of areas residents work here.
Factory workers - Craftsmen - Gardeners Cosmopolitan New occupants desirable - mostly 2nd generation of foreign descent This area was laid out 25 years ago. Lacking any building restrictions, the early construction consisted mostly of garages with one or two rooms for living purposes - "a working man's garden plot homesite". Now 50% built up with small single residences and cottages. However, not all of the early landmarks have disappeared; approximately 15% of the old, cheap, temporary built homes (without basements) still remain scattered throughout area. Streets are either paved or hard surfaced; average lot 50'x150'-200'; transportation is limited due to outlying location of area; all utilities installed; public school located in the area. Starting from scratch, the area is being slowly transformed into a fair residential neighborhood with some appeal to the factory and laboring man. Twelve new homes built within past year along W. 226th and W. 227th. Very little development west of municipal limits. Many of the early owners located here, principally, because they could purchase large lots at low cost. As the area developed, several improvements were installed running up the special assessments to a high cost per lot with the result that a good number of the early owners were forced to give up their properties. In addition to these assessments there is a school tax of approximately $12.00 per year. The situation has been somewhat improved through the expiration of some of the special assessments and also because in later years a slightly 'higher-wage-earning class' had settled here. Future activity will be along moderate lines.
Small business owners - office workers - some professionals Russian Jewish Continued strong Jewish infiltration This area lies on a plateau overlooking Lakeview Cemetery and Cleveland proper to the west. This section is approximately 90% built up, 45% with two families, 35% singles and 20% large apartment structures. The southwesterly section includes the Cedar-Fairmount commercial center and balance of area lies between and along the main arteries of Euclid Heights Blvd. and Mayfield Rd. Solid apartment developments are locates, principally, on Overlook (west part) Superior Rd. (east part) and Euclid Heights Blvd. from Edgehill to Coventry, Hampshire from Overlook to Coventry and Mayfield Rd. from Kenilworth to Coventry. Concentration of two family structures lies in the easterly portion north of Mayfield Rd. Six to 7 room singles are mostly located in portion east of Coventry and south of Hampshire. This area, at present, shows definite signs of a general exodus of property owners, "for sale" signs are plentiful and many vacancies exist. "Suites available" signs are displayed on all apartments, the aristocratic large homes located in the western part of area are being sacrificed by owners at approximately 40 on the dollar. The restrictions on this section preventing apartment structures in some parts will all expire within the next few years and even now vacant parcels along Euclid Heights Blvd. carry large "Available for Apartment Site" signs. This is an old aristocratic section sliding definitely to a predominantly apartment area.
Laborers - White collared - Skilled Craftsmen Italian This older part of South Euclid was platted about 25 yrs. ago and developed by 8 or 9 different companies, each developing one street. This area is unusual in that most streets have 50' lots ranging from 180'x375', except such streets as Francis Ct., Lilac and Laurel which have 40'x120' lots. The streets also vary considerably in the type of development, ranging from bungalows, semi-bungalows to standard 2 sty. brick singles (one street has two family structures predominating) as follows: Feltoh (singles- $6500); Maplegrove (singles and bungalows $5500-$6000); Argonne (mixed $4500-6500); Sheffield (converted 2 families- $6500); Francis Ct. (bungalows - $3500). These streets contain the bulk of the Italian occupancy in this area. Other streets in the area are developed, predominantly, with single homes occasionally mixed with a bungalow or semi-bungalow, such as: Lilac and Laurel. Area between Dill and Dorsh (southeast corner) consists of two large estates. This area, at the present time, is about 18% developed when consideration is given to unplatted acreage, but existing streets are built up about 75%; schools, stores, churches and transportation are located along Mayfield Rd. Future of area appears stable for the next several years but will depend on the strength of restrictions for each street developed, since area as a whole lacks both uniformity in lot size and development. (Deed restrictions on many streets have expired).
White-collared - Skilled mechanics & Craftsmen This large area, consisting of virtually all of Lyndhurst, was a late subdivisional promotion just getting under way before the depression and only a few streets were developed with homes prior to 1930. The area has lain dormant, with the exception of a few streets in the western part, such as: Eastover, Mayview, Willshire, Oakmont and Haverford which have been built up in the last 3 yrs. with single homes in the $6000-$7500 bracket. The development of the first 3 streets mentioned was a speculative building resulting in uniform well-priced homes which sold well and, will probably result in continued activity by this builder. The portion of area north of Mayfield Rd. and east of Irene is only slightly developed; Beaconfield, Sunview and Haverstown are open field; Brainard is unpaved but utilities in - no houses. Balance of this northeastern portion has paved streets and utilities; 5 new homes built on Gordon (Croydon developed with only 4 houses.) The Central-northern portion of area (shown unplatted on map) has recently been broken into 5 acre parcels developed with 8 homes ranging from $8000-$15,000; only 3 such parcels remain for construction of homes. Stores for area are located on Mayfield Rd. between Irene and Churchill, grade school at intersection of Richmond and Mayfield, high school is located in extreme western portion of area and churches are distant (Green Rd. and Mayfield in South Euclid); transportation is good (15 min. rush, half hour regular). The future for this 3rd grade area, now approx. 10% built up, will depend much on a "street by street" basis for future development and restrictions. Informed realtor's opinion is that westerly portion will rise to a 2nd grade neighborhood within the next 10 yrs. (based on type and present rate of construction), but the easterly portion will develop only slowly.
Laborers - Factory workers - White-collared Italian As true with all outlying originally unrestricted areas, this 3rd grade neighborhood (consisting of all of Mayfield Hts. having some development) first was built during the immediate post-war period with a hodge-podge of cottages (with and without foundations), "jerry-built" singles and some well constructed homes. Present restrictions, however, had ceased this activity and only well constructed homes, not less than 20'x20' on the foundation, can be built here from now on. All utilities and sidewalks are in, in this area, but the following streets are unpaved; Eastwood, Summit, Elmwood, W. Miner, E. Miner, Genessee, Orchard Hts., Longwood, Woodhurst, Fruitland and Woodrow. Development by street also varies as follows: Iroquois (cottages - $2500-$4500); Eastwood (only 2 brick singles - $7000); Summit (bungalows and singles - $4500-$6500); Belrose (semi-bungalows and singles - $5000-$6500); Mayfield Ridge (bungalows and semi-bungalows - $4000-$6000); Elmwood (mixed - $3000-$5000); Lander (semi-bungalow and singles - $2500-$6000). Balance of area is sparsely settled with mixed types of construction ranging from $2500 to $5000, mostly built by individuals, and lack uniformity of architecture. Grade school for area is located at Mayfield Ridge and Maplewood; stores at Mayfield and Washington; transportation on Mayfield (15 min. rush, half hour regular); area has no churches and high school (bus pick-up) is located to the east of area at the intersection of Ridgebury and SOM Center Rd. The future for this 3rd grade area appears more favorable now that the above mentioned building restrictions prevent shoddy construction, and, elimination or reconditioning of cottages for better conformity is now progressing to some extent. However, the presence of heterogeneous construction will continue to hold this neighborhood in its present gradation.
Factory workers - office clerks Italian - others mixed Influx of Italian and lower income families This workingman's neighborhood lies along both sides of the heavily trafficked Euclid Ave. thoroughfare which is almost solidly developed with small commercial structures mixed with several apartments. The topography of area is level north of Euclid but rises to the south of Euclid in two fairly steep inclines. Development began about 30 yrs. ago with the location of the General Electric factories which about south boundary of area. Lots are predominantly 40 front feet but vary in depth south of Euclid due to a hilly terrain; however, average depth may be stated as 120-150 ft. The area also varies in types of construction; north of Euclid development is approx. 75% small singles ($4000-5000 bracket), 25% two-family $6800-7500 bracket). The portion of area between Euclid Ave. south to Endora is almost wholly developed with two-family structures ($7000-7800 bracket); thus the part of area south of Euclid is 75% two-family, 25% singles - 5-6 rms. (price bracket $5500-7000). Industrial lands (including NYC RR) abuts entire north boundary of area. This neighborhood is virtually fully built-up, only 4-5% of land shown vacant on map is suitable for home construction. In the past 10 yrs. a steady influx of lower income group, mostly Italian, has found its way into the cheaper properties north of Euclid Ave. Community, as a whole, shows lack of maintenance and, although prices asked for homes (particularly two-families) are considerably above "income return", realtors opinion is that this 3rd grade neighborhood will continue to decline. Chief deterrent to sales south of Euclid is winter car driving hazard encountered in traversing steep double incline.
Factory workers - some white collared This third grade area is the outlying development along Euclid Ave. from E. 193rd to 228th St. abutting and between vacant industrial land and railroad property on its northern border. In discussing this long area, we will cover its development from east to west on a "street to street" basis as follows: Westerlyt projection, containing E. 193rd, 195th and 196th Sts. Genessee and Shawnee Aves., is developed with singles - average age 15 yrs. - $3500-$5000; central part, containing E. 204th and Dillo Road, is mixed - has several two-family structures, principally on E. 204th St. - $5000-$6500; balance of area to the east is developed on side streets with singles - average age 30 yrs. $3000-$4500. Euclid Ave. contains scattered small commercial structures, gasoline stations, etc. and transportation on this highway is via street car (half hour service) but its terminus is at E. 212th St. and residents living beyond that part must walk to this point. Future for this 20% built up area is uncertain since its distance to downtown and only fair transportation, also proximity to railroad and industrial property, prevent giving it more than a weak 3rd grade rating.
White collared- Business man This area, known as Sherwood Forest Section, lies on a plateau rising above Euclid Ave. (main outlet Sherwood Blvd,). This section was one of the latest of boom period developments and was not really under way when the depression set in. In fact, not all of the streets are paved and development with homes is only about 2-3% (approx. 15 homes in whole area.) Section is scenic and wooded but distance to schools, stores, churches and lack of transportation have held this section dormant and future development will be very slow. Special assessments are high and have a few years to run. Delinquent taxes, in many cases, far exceed the present market value of lots and has been an additional deterrent to construction activity. It appears this area will lay dormant for the next 3-5 yrs.
Factory workers- Tradesmen- White Collared- Small business owners Yugo-Slavs-Germans & Lithuanians Slow influx of Slovenians & Lithuanians from downtown 4th grade areas. The 3rd grade neighborhood surrounding Euclid Beach Park had its first development about 35 yrs. ago in the western and extreme southerly parts. Lots throughout area, for the most part, have 40' frontage, but in the eastern section along such streets as- Marcella, Nottingham and Neff (W. side) Rds.- lots range from 45'-70'. The area's building restrictions were mainly a "street by street" proposition and many portions without restrictions, such as those streets abutting the west side of Euclid Beach Park, and, Damon and Pythias resulted in a very shoddy small-lot development of cheap summer cottages and single homes many of which should be condemned as fire hazards. However, only this portion of area mentioned above has this type of development. The more expensive and newer homes are located in the eastern section of area, including a few large estates on Nottingham Rd. and to the northeast. Mortgage funds are ample in this part of area but are limited to a smaller percentage of the appraisal in the older parts of area to the south and west. Future for this 40% built up area is favorable in the eastern part but the older section will gradually decline and presence of amusement park and abutting cheap cottages will continue to be a detriment to the central part of the neighborhood. Stores, schools, churches and transportation are conveniently located in area. Streets are paved and all utilities installed.
Factory workers - Tradesmen - Mechanics - Craftsmen Several *see remarks The main portion of this area was laid out about 25 years ago into lots ranging from 25-40' frontage; now developed about 70% with single family homes ranging from 1-1 1/2 to 2 sty. standard singles mixed about 5% with 2 family structures and small semi-commercial structures with apartments above. * This neighborhood is occupied predominantly by foreign and American of foreign descent from the following nationalities: Slovenian, Croatian, Lithuanian, Italian and German. E. 185th is zoned commercial and contains the shopping district, theatres and transportation for this area; schools and churches are fairly convenient in nearby areas. This community is predominantly a $3500-$5000 neighborhood but a few $6000 brick homes have been built by owners in this neighborhood within the past 3-5 yrs. Future for area appears stable for the next 3-5 yrs. but occupants, lack of uniformity in homes, plus mixture of small lots establishes this area as a 3rd grade neighborhood.
White collared-Tradesmen-Some professional-small business owners American Community This area was laid out about 30 yrs. ago and first developed along Canterbury, Landseer, Cornwall Rds. (some 50' lots) with single homes; then about 25 yrs. ago cottages on 40' lots were built along Schenely, Crestland, Ingleside and Windward but only constitute 5% of the structures in this area. These cottages range in the bracket from $2500-$3500 and single homes ($4500-$7000) have been built all around them. This 70% built up area lay dormant following the depression up until 3 yrs. ago when some building activity occurred (mostly owner-contracted). A few homes on Canterbury Rd. are above the $7000 class. The commercial district and transportation for this area is located on E. 185th (west boundary); schools and churches are conveniently nearby. Age of neighborhood and mixture of cottages and small homes establish this neighborhood as a 3rd grade area which should remain stable for the next few years.
Laboring; Some white-collared Italian - This small third grade area surrounding the business and industrial section of Rocky River was platted some 40 yrs. ago. Starting from a small settlement, it gradually expanded and now is approximately 90% built up. Stilla fairly clean area but homes are showing age and obsolescence; there are approximately 50% single dwellings, 40% two-family houses and 10% apartments; many of the single dwellings were converted into two families within the past 6-10 years. Homes along the eastern section of area are oldest and many have been jerry-built. The area has good transportation, school and shopping facilities. The New York Central RR traverses through center of area; lot sizes are very irregular. In all probability this neighborhood will remain static for several years.
Factory workers - Craftsmen - Mechanics - white collared Yugo Slavs-German This large area was laid out about 20 yrs. ago into lots ranging from 40'-50' frontage and is now about 40% built up. Development first began in the portion in the west section between E. 185th and E. 200th (40' lots) now 80% built up with a scattering of approx. ten 2-family dwellings. Schools, stores, churches and rapid transportation (E. 185th) are available to this section of area. The southeastern section of area from E. 232nd to Babbitt Rd. (all 50' lots - many wooded) in the past 3 yrs. has had considerable building activity (10 new homes past 12 mos.) and future appears favorable for this portion of area. The triangular northeast portion of area lying between E. 222nd and Babbitt, north of Westport Ave. is largely undeveloped. All utilities are installed in this area; all streets paved west of E. 200th. Between E. 200th and E. 222nd, only Crystal, Priday and Nicholas Aves., E. 206, E. 211, E. 215, E. 216, E. 218 and E. 220th are not paved. Between E. 222nd and Babbitt only Milton, Crystal, Westport, Wilmore and Beckford Aves. and E. 228th St. are unpaved. The future for this area during the next 3-5 yrs. appears stable but very favorable for the southeastern corner from E. 232 to Babbitt because of its advantages mentioned above and proximity to 20 min. transportation on Lakeland plus school, and nearby factories to the south (Chase Brass Co. and Addressograph-Multigraph Co.)
Salaried Employees - Craftsmen - Mechanics American Community This very small area was the result of lack of proper lake frontage control resulting in a location of Lake Shore Manor Hotel (40 efficiency apartments) on beach and a short two street development (E. 205th and 206th Sts.) with small lots approx. 40x60 developed with mixed 1- 1 1/2 and 2 story frame dwellings with the exception of two small brick homes recently constructed. Residents in this neighborhood share beach facilities with the hotel and although properties lack uniformity and have the appearance of cheap construction, residents are desirable Americans and occupancy demand is very strong. Hotel has waiting list of 500 applicants for small two-room apartments at $38.50 per month. Development of homes in this small area is solid on the east and west sides of E. 205th and on the west side of E. 206th but the east side of E. 206th is vacant except for four houses on the southern end. A frame commercial structure at the "Y" of E. 205th and E. 206th, formerly a commercial apartment structure, has been remodeled into a four family structure. The future for this area appear stable but tis present status creates a distinct break between desirable areas abutting the east and west boundaries and results in some sales resistance to properties immediately abutting this section.
Craftsmen-Clerks-Tradesmen American Community This small third grade neighborhood lying on both sides of a small park was developed about 20 years ago with summer cottages and later filled in with single homes. Most of the cottages have been renovized for all-year purpose. The lots in area are rather small, ranging from 40-50 ft. frontage but only 85 ft. or less in depth. Intermingling of single homes with one story low gable roof cottages has produced a lack of uniformity detrimental to single home values. However, occupants are desirable American families. Demand is good for this section because of beach facilities and nearness to stores located at intersection of E. 222nd and Lake Shore Blvd. Area is almost solidly developed; all streets are paved; all utilities installed. Area's future will remain stable for the next 3 to 5 years.
Machinists - Craftsmen - Some office workers Slovenians This large 3rd grade area, now about 20% built up, had its first development in the northwestern part and southwestern hook projection about 25 yrs. ago when these streets were built up with summer cottages (beach facilities). Development in the area from east boundary (east of E. 260th St.) along side streets is very light consisting of only a few scattered homes (most streets unpaved). However, along E. 250th (southern half) within the past three years considerable building activity has occurred sponsored by Moses Helper. Here large lots (mostly acre parcels) have been developed with homes ranging in value from $4500-$6500 (mostly frames mixed with an occasional brick structure). Sales have been good in this new development (10 built here last year). However, on the whole, this area suffers from lack of transportation, distance to schools, stores and churches. Nearest available transportation is half-hour bus service on Lake Shore Blvd. (northern boundary) and at intersection of Babbitt Road and Lakeland Boulevard (west of extreme southern part of area) 20 min. service. Upson Grade School for this district is located in northeastern part between Gilmore and Shoreview at E. 260th St. Future for this area appears favorable according to informed realtor's opinion but development will be moderate for the next few years because of lack of advantages mentioned before.
Mill employees - Mechanics - Retired Farmers - Some professional Mixed This area (lying on the eastern boundary of the county) includes the residential confines of Chagrin Falls, Ohio and is about 85-90% developed. The topography is rolling and slopes down to the Chagrin River which dissects the northern half of area. Development began here over 100 yrs. ago with the founding of the township, and has proceeded at a negligible rate, population approx. 3000. The commercial district is centered amd restricted to the triangle formed by the thoroughfares; Franklin, Washington and Main Sts. Residential development varies somewhat, but generally along thoroughfares consists of the intermingling of newer homes ranging from 15-75 yrs; many of the old homes have been extensively remodeled, some into doubles. Lot frontage varies from 45-80 ft.; area has very few 30-35 ft. front lots. The northerly part, along Cottage and High Sts., contains the cheapest development; avg. age 65 yrs., price bracket $2500-$3500. The newer sections, active 1925-29, along such streets as Olive and Hall (SW part), E. Washington (SE part) and North St. (NE part) contain 6 rm. singles, avg. age 10-15 yrs., price bracket $3500-7000. Franklin St. is the elite section - large old homes and lots; avg. age 50 yrs., price bracket $5000-9000, a few as high as $12,000. The area's only local source of employment is a paper mill employing approx. 180 persons. The Cleveland industrial area is 18 miles distant; transportation on 2 hr. basis via Greyhound bus. Area's school facilities consist of one grade and one high school; one new grade school ($10,000) now under construction with aid of Federal funds. Because of its age, dormancy, lack of local employment source, and poor transportation to distant industry, this stable "farmer's market" community is classified in fair 3rd gr.
Whilte collared- mechanics- industrial workers Bohemian- Cosmopolitan This area includes the residential and street allotment confines of Solon, Ohio; founded over 100 yrs. ago- now only about 15-20% built up. Terrain is fairly level but residential development is centered mostly in the portion of area immediately south of the railroad yard area; the older cheaper development is along Old Main and Solon Rds. in the railroad yard area. This area suffered a severe setback during the late 20's when the over-allotment and improvement of streets (Bainbridge Rd. sub-div.) placed the community heavily in debt forcing the respread of a $350,000 bonded indebtedness over the whole village. At the present time there are approx. 2900 vacant lots. An additional drawback to this community is the absence of any local source of industrial employment; transportation to Cleveland industrial area (9 mi. distant) is only via combination morning and evening train service. School facilities consist of centralized grade and high school. In the past yrs., Solon has had little or no construction activity within this area but thoroughfares leading out of community have been developed with many cheap constructed small homes (36 in '38) some without basements. Zoning restrictions for the township, however, now prohibit this type of construction. Above mentioned heavy Village indebtedness resulted in many foreclosures. Over 100 of the approx. 400 dwelling structures changed hands between '28-'37 for this reason. Vacancy was also high, being estimated at 7% during '38 but now believed to be only about 3% due to low-rental housing demand in Metropolitan area. This community has had only negligible development except for the period between '18-'28 and due to the aforementioned factors will progress very slowly at best during the next few years. Area is accorded a weak 3rd grade rating.
Factory workers and laborers German Italian-Bohemian This new area, principally stretching along 4 roads (Forbes, Broadway, Tryon and Macedonia) was, until about two years ago, undeveloped farm land surrounding a small negro settlement. Area was then broken up into 1-5 acre parcels selling for approx. $350 an acre and speculative development began at a rapid rate with small frame dwellings, mostly without basement in the 1-1 1/2 sty. 4-5 room type. Informed realtor's opinion is that sales have been made on most liberal terms and by a variety of types of conveyances. The wisdom of this financing policy has been questioned by some realtors but construction has continued rapidly and sales have been satisfactory. At present, area is about 40% developed and although cheap, is attractive because of its newness. However, lack of transportation, proximity to negro settlement (abutting area) and distance to schools, stores and churches limit this area to 3rd grade. Area has limited utility facilities; has electricity, lacks sewer and most parts are without gas and water.
White-collared Cosmopolitan This area, consisting of several subdivisions, laid out 35 years ago now 90% built up; very good transportation (street car lines on Detroit and Madison Aves. which are the main thoroughfares in this area); convenient to schools, churches and shopping centers (retail district located on Detroit Ave. and Madison Ave. in center part of area). Area comprises 65% two-story single dwellings and 35% two-family dwellings, the latter being scattered throughout the entire section. Foreign population consisting of several nationalities, with none predominating, is located in the eastern half of this area; community is fairly well settled although foreign encroachment continues at a slow pace. The homes are fairly well kept and no change in standard or level of desirability is anticipated during the next five years. From there on, however, the trend will be downward in view of the pressure of foreign infiltration existing in the areas east of here.
White-collared & factory workers Cosmopolitan Slow-mixed nationalities from areas to east. This area was allotted approximately 35 years ago; now 90% built up; very good transportation facilities; convenient to schools, churches and stores. West portion of area is made up of the larger (7-8 rooms) homes which average around 30 years. This section was at one time considered a fine residential neighborhood, especially that portion of area along Cohassett, Alameda, Lakewood and Ridgewood Avenues. Area consists of 70% two-story single dwellings, 20% two-family and side-by-side dwellings and 10% apartments, the latter being located along Cove Ave. There are also some terraces on Beach Ave. and Beach Parkway. Foreign infiltration is somewhat heavy especially in the eastern half of the area; the better class of residents are moving further west as the lower bracket earners (foreign and foreign-descent) are coming in from the immediate west area in Cleveland. Sales prices appear to have declined from 5% to 10% since 1937 but this drop, according to real estate brokers, is principally due to the unstable economic conditions rather than the heavy infiltration of lower bracket earners. This area is given a weak third grade rating, since its location places it in a direct line to receive the brunt of foreign infiltration from the older close-in areas to the east.
Factory workers and laborers Slavs and Poles Desirable occupants gradually moving out This is the poorest residential section in Berea. Comprised mostly of old, cheaply constructed homes and shacks. Populated by 50% Negro & 30% Foreign. Flat terrain. Lots 30-50x100; Pearl Rd. is paved - all others slag and cindered; all utilities installed; good transportation; abuts railroad along northern boundary; Dunham Foundry, Ohio Nut & Bolt Co. and the Foxy Toy Co. located in this area. Many of the occupants are employed there. The Dunham Co. brought colored people from the south to work in this foundry. Employs about a third of them now (formerly 1000 now 300). The boundaries of this area will remain pretty much intact. The better people are slowly moving out. Rental collections are difficult and real estate activity is stagnant. Mortgage money is unobtainable. No HOLC or other institutional sales reported in this area during past three years. Trend is rapidly downward. Accordingly, the area is given a very poor fourth grade rating.
Laborers This small totally colored community was the result of an independent movement and development surrounding the construction of their church in this area some 25 years ago. No streets are paved and lack of maintenance through the years has given this area its name of "Shantytown". Presence of this community has had a very detrimental effect on surrounding area property values, particularly to the immediate south. Utilities are available to area. This section is now about 75-80% built up and, apparently, is solidly entrenched, in fact this area, prior to Miles Heights annexation to Cleveland in 1932, was able to elect a negro as Mayor of Miles Heights. Area will remain static but may spread into Garfield Heights (S.W) if the purchasing power of the colored residents increases enough to buy this property, (lying to south) now in the $1800-3500 bracket which has virtually no market for white due to proximity to this colored neighborhood.
Workingmen - mechanics - craftsmen, etc. Mixed This small workingmen's district has been given a 4th grade rating due to complete isolation (only one outlet), heavy turnover in foreclosures just now being completed, complete encirclement by industrial zoned property, adjacency to industry (Cleveland Illuminating Co.) on west border and proximity to Erie RR (north boundary) over which children in area must traverse to and from school. Area is approx. 1/2 mile from schools, 1 mile from churches, 1/2 mile to stores. Transportation is along Miles Ave. just north of area. High taxes, prior to annexation, due to pavement of streets brought on a heavy foreclosures rate but change of ownership has been virtually completed. Area is now 75% built up, but contains in all only about 40-50 homes. No improvement in area is looked for in the future except new ownership should be stable. Greatest disadvantage to area is its single outlet over the Erie RR to Miles Ave.
Laborers - Small business owners - Peddlers (Heavy relied rolls) Russian, Jewish, Italians Strong colored infiltration - also Jewish & Italian This area's development began about 25 years ago and was featured by the heavy percentage of "Jerry-type" construction throughout. Almost immediately the commercial district along Kinsman became solidly Jewish-owned and a heavy infiltration of Russian-Jewish and Italian occurred between 1920-30 and although slower since then has continued up to date. Beginning with about 1928 a movement of colored from the downtown areas started in this section and progressed with moderate success up until about 3 years ago when the movement became more pronounced, and at present is continuing steadily. The heavy slump in price valuation in property in this area occurring following the depression made some recovery up to 1937 with improved general business conditions but is again sliding due to lack of maintenance and constant infiltration from these elements. A boom of commercial property along Kinsman Rd. was experienced in 1928 but collapsed and did not materially affect residential property values. This area throughout shows poor maintenance and rapid depreciation of property is characteristic of these inhabitants. Informed realtor's opinion is that this section should have been, at the outset, developed for colored occupancy as an overflow outlet for the strong movement that has progressed into the northeastern part of Cleveland. However no concerted effort was made and the present occupancy has resulted from the normal characteristic of colored infiltration into Jewish & Italian neighborhoods with the obsolescence of property due to lack of maintenance. The apparent future for this area will be an increasing occupancy ratio by Jewish, Italian and colored with a steady fall in price value.
Predominantly steel and factory workers Slavish This older section (entire western and southern boundary abutting industry and railroad property) gradually rises on a slope to the east from E. 93rd St. Section was developed first about 40 yrs. ago in the western part and area is now 98% built up on lots ranging from 30-35' frontage (only two streets, now partially filled in, remain undeveloped). This area naturally is detrimentally affected by smoke, dirt and soot from adjacent railroads, foundries and steel and iron works. Homes west of E. 93rd are smallest and cheapest; homes along eastern boundary of area and such streets as Raymond and Heath are better and average about 25 yrs. age. Main thoroughfares for this section are E. 93rd (crosstown connection) and Union and Aetna Aves. (east-west). The commercial district is scattered along E. 93rd, heaviest at E. 93rd and Union and extreme north boundary abutting Erie RR are smaller and cheaper conforming with homes west of E. 93rd as mentioned above. This area's occupants contains a large percentage of Slovaks and many long time resident Irish hold here by the Catholic parishes at St. Catherine Ave. & E. 93rd and at Aetna Rd. and E. 93rd St. Some small volume of mortgage lending still continues in this section on a limited basis, principally on better kept property surrounding the churches. However the age of property, complete development (congested due to small lots) and detrimental influence of nearby industry penalizes this area to 4th grade class, although it still has desirability as a factory worker's district within walking distance to employment at the western boundary consisting of such firms as the Allyne Ryan Foundry, Draper Barrel & Drum Co., Pneumatic Tool, Champion Rivet and several other small steel & iron concerns.
Mechanics - Steel workers - Laborers Slavish - Polish - Italian Slowly to foreign (from 4th grade areas to west) This workingman's "thoroughfare" district has suffered from many setbacks and detrimental influences over the past 50 yrs. Originally the American Steel & Wire Co. (formerly abutting area on the north) employed many occupants of area but moved its plant to Lorain, Ohio, throwing most of these people out of employment and their homes on the market. The area is affected by noise, soot and dirt of railroads, nearby industry, and very heavy vehicular traffic. The elevation of the Penna. R.R. dissecting the area, improved traffic but detrimentally affected surrounding property values and caused the main thoroughfares in northern part (Broadway & Harvard) to change grade and dip at their intersection. Home sin this northern half are much older (avg. 45-50 yrs.) than in southern part (avg. 18-22 yrs.). Polish occupancy is principally along side streets off Broadway in northern part. There is a scattering of Italian through southwesterly corner, principally in homes in edge overlooking the industrial ravine to the west. The commercial district is centered at Broadway & Harvard but light commercial structures continue along those thoroughfares and northern part of Warner Rd. Future for this 4th grade area, due to slow foreign encroachment - age of properties - dissection by railroads - and proximity to industry, will be slowly down.
Steel workers Polish - Some Slavish & Czechs This heavily concentrated Polish neighborhood, primarily a steel and factory worker's district, is about 50 yrs. old in the portion north of Fleet and along Broadway; about 10-15 yrs. younger in part of area west of E. 71st St. and south of Fleet. Industrial property and railroads virtually surround this area except that part of southwesterly boundary abutting Washington Park. Most of the inhabitants here are employed by Republic, Otis, U.S. Steel and Aluminum Co. of America (abutting area.) The area is distinguished by its heavy concentration of 2-family homes, not located in any particular section but grouped in sets of 10-12 - apparently built in rows by contractors. Several long one-floor plan singles (approx. 5% of total) have been converted into 2-family utility. Here and there pride of ownership is evident in inexpensive improvement, such as new lawns and upkeep of shrubbery but on the whole, limited income of these residents leaves much to be desired in renovation. The small commercial structures are scattered along thorofares of Broadway, Fleet, Aetna and Harvard. Area has good transportation, school and social centers, such as lodges and halls; two large Polish Catholic Churches are located in 3rd grade neighborhood surrounded by this area. Main shopping center for this district is located in 4th grade area to the north along Broadway. This fully built-up section, although old and detrimentally affected by smoke, soot, fumes and dirt, is stable due to the type of inhabitants, (Polish), high home ownership ratio and proximity of employment.
Steel workers Czech-Polish-Slavish This Broadway-East 55th Section has the largest shopping center immediately southeast of the downtown area and contains the highest concentration of Bohemian population including their social centers of churches, halls, schools, and lodges. This area is primarily a steel factory worker's district (Republic, Otis and U.S. Steel about western boundary). The stability of population and gregarious instinct of the inhabitants has held the desirability of this neighborhood beyond its detrimental influences such as smoke, dirt, and soot from industry and noise of heavy traffic. Consequently rental and sales demand has always been good although these people are "thight raders". This area has ample transportation, school, church and social facilities. There is an evident pride of home ownership although income of owners is too small to permit regular exterior painting and other modernization. The trend of this neighborhood will remain mostly unchanged except for the gradual obsolescence of property due to age. Although owner occupancy has been shown as 85%, the thrifty habit of these people in purchasing adjacent property should qualify in the strong holding of an additional 10% by individuals (in other words, not unwillingly hold). A very strong effort has been maintained to limit the inhabitants of this area to white only and no negro encroachment is anticipated, although approximately 10 negro families are located in the northernmost section along E. 33rd. Area is 100% built up.
Laborers - Few steel workers - warehouse & market workers Hungarian - Slovak Slow infiltration of colored from Outhwaite section This area, almost completely surrounded by industrial concentration, is the second most undesirable residential area on the east side. Up until 12 years ago it was almost solidly occupied by Hungarian and Slovak population but with the lessening of industrial activity and lack of upkeep in dwellings, a steady movement of Hungarian families from this neighborhood brought an immediate infiltration of colored from the Outhwaite section lying to the northwest. This infiltration has continued, principally, along Kinsman in the northwestern part of area. At present, property values have virtually reached their maximum depreciation and sales are almost at a standstill except for speculative purposes by owners with purpose of renting to colored in mind for higher rental income. Responsibility for this change was hastened by the electrification of the New York Central RR lines, which in many cases made dead-end streets, and the closing of factories in the depression following '29. The general detriments caused by proximity to industry are all apparent and the lack of upkeep in property will continue to attract colored occupancy. The main thoroughfare for this district is Kinsman Rd. along which commercial property is scattered. The only possible improvement or change from the present rate of colored infiltration would be the renewal of industrial activity which would attract white factory workers back to this area thus creating a market for the sale of heavy institutional holdings. Social facilities are noticeably lacking in this area consisting of one grade school and one junior high and a few churches. Area is 99% built up.
Laborers - Peddlers - Factory warehouse workers Italian - Russian - Jewish Moving out of residents with demolition of dwellings This old downtown, foreign, heavily negro populated section is bordered on two of its three sides by industries and railroads. Area was laid out and developed over 100 years ago into small lots 32 ft.x120 ft. and developed almost exclusively along side streets with small frame homes many of which have been demolished to make way for commerce along thoroughfares, and to provide room for the existing large warehouses along Broadway south to the railroads. Area has one of the most dense populations in the city. Concentration of negro population in this area is the heaviest in the city. Area is characterized by its heavy relief rolls, high disease and mortality rate, crime and unemployment. This is the most undesirable area in entire city. Food marketing for the city of Cleveland is concentrated in this section which includes the city's largest warehousing and trucking facilities, contains two of Cleveland's four government housing projects. One located in the block formed by Cedar, Central, E. 26th and E. 30th. The other in the block formed by Scovill, Woodland, E. 40th and E. 55th St.
Factory workers Slavish Moving out of old residents with gradual demolition of property This area was platted over 100 years ago and developed into lots on side streets averaging 30 ftx120 ft. The obsolescence of residences, encroachment of commerce and light industrial plants into this area (due to its age and expiring restrictions) and immediate proximity to the downtown business section, have taken their toll on desirability of this area from a residential standpoint. The present occupants of this section, in many cases, have two dwellings on one lot and the population decrease is occasioned by demolition of dwelling structures which have reached their maximum depreciation to the point that value rests entirely on the land for commercial and light industrial use (average 50 per sq. ft.). At the time being, the area is zoned for apartments, commerce and grade "B" (light) industrial. Future for this area lies only in the enhancement of land value for industrial and commercial use.
Laborers- factory workers- railroaders Italians and Slavish of Italians, Slavs and Negroes This allotment, known as "Old Lindale", was laid out in 1910 with 25'-40' lots; it is not approximately 50% built up; 40% of streets are paved, remainder dirt and slag (WPA slagged several streets this year); gas, water, light and sewer available to homes already constructed; bus transportation 92o minute service during day) on W. 130th which runs north and south to center of area (W. 130th is scheduled for widening and new pavement in 1940 from the point just completed this year at the railroad (Area C-16) through to Wooster Pike). A grade school is located on Longmead (just north of area) and a Catholic school (St. Paul's) at W. 130th and Bennington; some retail stores are located on W. 130th. There is a gradual infiltration of foreign, principally Italian and Slavish with some negroes. The negro element, which is an overflow settlement from area D-3 (north) is concentrated on Wileon and Wainfleet Aves. in the northwest section of area. Foreclosures here are heavier than average and considerable difficulty is experienced in selling. The single houses range from $800-$4500 and two-family and multiple units, from $3500-5800. Many of the area's occupants are employed in the industries abutting the community. Proximity to industry is area's best claim and it will retain present population for a few years at least, without marked increase of negro infiltration.
All types - laborers - clerks - domestic workers - small business men Slavs, Bohemians, Italians, Swedes & mixed Slow infiltration of mixed foreign from 4th grade area abutting west boundary This large old area was formerly the main residential section of the east side of Cleveland. As early as 1890 it was fairly heavily developed and is now built up almost 100%. Portion of area from Hough Ave. to the south was once a fashionable section of large old mansions now depopulated by the owners and many have been converted into boarding houses and sanatoriums which the balance have been torn down to make way for commercial and apartment structures. The portion of area north of Hough Ave. was formerly the district of business owners and high grade factory workers, which, due to age and infiltration, has now gained a heavy foreign occupancy. The large single homes and heavy development antedated the two family structure popularity so that at present only approximately 10% of the buildings are of the up-and-down 2-family type. This area also falls into two rental medium groups - south of Hough Ave. rental medium is approximately $35-45; north of Hough rentals are $25-35. The area has gone rapidly to commercial structures along its main arteries such as: St. Clair, Superior, Wade Park, Hough and Euclid. The southeastern corner of area includes the largest shopping and commercial center east of the downtown business district at the intersection of E. 105th and Euclid. Stability of area, particularly southern part, depends primarily on its potential growth as the largest apartment section immediately east of the downtown area. As for the central and northern part, gradual obsolescence of single-family homes hold very little except a slow declining future. Center of area contains "red-light district" concentrated at Hough and E. 79th St. spreading over several blocks, principally to the east and west.
(White) Peddlers - Junk Dealers - Small Business Men - Laborers (Colored) Service workers - Domestic - Waiters - Porters, etc. Predominantly Russian Jews - some Hungarians, few Italians Strong colored infiltration from Outhwaite - Woodland Sec. This area, although somewhat younger than the 4th grade area immediately to the west, is a continuation of the negro belt but has experienced, to a lesser degree, the detrimental change of ownership occupancy from white to colored. Prior to the World War, and as early as 1910, this area had only a scattering of colored occupancy in the northwest corner. At that time and up until 1920 a change of ownership principally to Russian-Jewish occurred. From the period of 1920-30 colored infiltration came very strongly along the thoroughfare of Cedar in the north and Quiney in the south (almost totally colored now). There is a concentration of Hungarians along Buckeye Rd. and of Italians in the extreme easterly part of district. This area contains the southern portion of the very large commercial and shopping district centered at E. 105th and Euclid. Large old mansions located on Cedar and Carnegie have been converted into rooming houses or are being torn down to make way for commercial structures. Business is scattered throughout along Carnegie, Cedar, Quincy, Buckeye and Woodhill Rd. There is also a commercial center at Buckeye and Woodhill Rd. The portion of area lying east of Woodhill Rd. is considerably newer. Development here has been predominantly of two-family structure - occupancy heavily Italian - no colored. Area includes Lunn Park section recently purchased for government housing project now underway. This small portion of area has been the scene of violent crime and gangster activity, particularly during prohibition days. The trend for this area (now about 99% built up) is definitely downward since colored infiltration from 4th grade area to the west will continue strongly (very heavy during the past 3 years). There is a conserted effort being made by the better class colored in this section to locate in the 4th grade area along E. 105th north of Wade Park but institutions have agreed not to sell to them.
Wholesale (Food) Employees - Laborers - Small contractors & gardeners Italian Increasing with Italians This well-known Italian settlement has gained notoriety from the activities of the so-called "Mayfield Road mob" which figured prominently in gangster activities during prohibition and is said to be still active. Residents here are primarily engaged in the wholesale products work (fresh fruit and vegetables) which is concentrated in the 4th grade downtown area - D18. The native characteristic of these occupants is evident in their heavy population (large families) and lack of property maintenance. This area has some attraction to Italians living in the downtown Woodland Ave. district whose homes have reached the point of being uninhabitable causing them to move to this section. Owners of property in this area do most of their real estate transactions direct with purchaser and, according to informed realtor's opinion, are able to obtain prices in excess of the economic value of their property. No change is looked for in this area during the next few years, except that colleges abutting the west boundary would like to absorb this section as rapidly as their funds permit. This fully built up area has its own churches, schools and settlement houses.
Merchants - small business men - salesmen - white collared Russian Jewish & some Italian Strong influx of foreign - partly arrested influx of negro
Laborers-factory workers Predominantly Italian Increasingly Italian with decided movement to northeast This small area lying in the southwestern corner of East Cleveland abutting Lake View Cemetery, Goff-Kirby Coal Yard and railroad is the least desirable residential section of this community. This section was laid out about 45 years ago and lots average about 35 ft. frontage. The present occupants have utilized original large single family structures as multiple unit housing and population density in this section is very heavy. The informed realtor's opinion is that no mortgage funds have been available, even on limited terms, for the past 15 years in this area. Occupants are of the lowest income bracket, and relief rolls have been exceptionally heavy here.
Factory - Railroad Shop Workers - Craftsmen - Cement & stone workers Italian & Slay Slowly to Italian This fairly old area was laid out about 50 years ago as part of the Village of Collinwood into small lots averaging 30 ft.x100 ft., although there are a few above and beneath this bracket. The ratio of singles and two-family homes varies on either side of St. Clair Ave., the main artery through this section. This ratio, north of St. Clair is 70% singles and 30% two-family and south of St. Clair is 60% singles and 40% two-family. Homes north of St. Clair range in age up to 45 years, the oldest of which were originally built without foundations and utilities and have since been remodeled. Properties south of St. Clair are considerably newer and range up to 30 yrs. with two families somewhat newer. Racial occupancy in this primarily industrial neighborhood also varies being almost solidly Italian south of St. Clair and East of Ivanhoe R. and heavily Slav north of St. Clair. Area suffered heavily during the depression, due to its predominancy of factory workers, and foreclosures were heavy. However, with the upturn in business during 1935-36 institutional sales on small down payment basis have been satisfactory. Property values in area have not recovered sharply because of the limited income of prospective purchasers who, through broken employment in such nearby industries as Fisher Body (abutting west boundary), New York Central Railroad Shop, Briggs and Apox Mfg. companies and various other industries, has not permitted the accumulation of more than a small down payment which prevents real estate transaction other than by institutions in liquidation. Example: Many of the 600 employees recently recalled to the Collinwoord Railroad shops, from a lay-off since July lived in this section. This fully built up industrial section will remain much the same for the next few years because of its advantageous location to nearby industries and transportation and occupancy desirability for the low income group. A slow infiltration of Italian may occur, although the area has had little shifting of population inside its boundaries.
Laborers - factory workers - some white collared Yugo-Slav, Lithuanian, German Slow infiltration of negro in western part This 4th grade area (entire south boundary) abutting industrial and railroad property) was laid out 35-40 yrs. ago and developed with cheap single homes mixed with a few converted two-family structures ranging from 1-1 1/2 to 2 sty. dwellings. Occupancy here was always of the working class and heavily populated by foreign. Within the past few years, a slow infiltration of colored has occurred who now live, principally, on Thames and Darwin in the western part of this section. The long easterly projection of this area is a strip of properties abutting the main thoroughfare Waterloo Rd. running from E. 152nd to E. 185th. Properties in this long strip either adjoin or abut many light industrial or semi-commercial properties. Traffic is very heavy along this thoroughfare (Waterloo). Informed realtor's opinion is that lending institutions will not make loans in this section or, if at all, only primarily in that part of area west of E. 140th which contains the better properties and more desirable occupants. Future for this 75% built up area will be slowly down and present slow rate of colored infiltration is not expected to materially increase.
Factory workers - laborers Yugo-Slavs Recent movement of few colored families into neighborhood This foreign section was developed about 25 yrs. ago with 1 to 1 1/2 sty. frame singles on 40' lots and almost wholly occupies by Yugo-Slavs who have kept gardens, chickens and some livestock (horses and cows) even today. This area includes a Slovenian Nat'l Home and has its own parish (St. Christine's) and school on E. 222nd. The majority of the central part of this area is undeveloped which accounts for the ratio of 40% built up. Community has remained stable with little or no shift in population and should continue to remain the same for the next several years. Stores are located on E. 200th and E. 222nd and on Miller Ave.; transportation via St. Clair (Cleveland Rwy. - 20 min. service) and via E. 200th (Euclid city bus - 1/2 hr. service) are advantageous to this workingman's neighborhood. Two colored families are located on E. 209th (moved here recently). However no continued movement of colored into this section is expected because of the antagonistic feeling of Yugo-Slav residents for these people. Employment is within walking distance to South (Chase Brass Co. & Addressograph - Multigraph Co.)
Laborers - factory workers Italian & Hungarian Very slow influx of American families This cheap neighborhood was laid out about 25 yrs. ago into lots ranging 25-40' frontage; developed without deed restrictions, and now built up about 50% with properties lacking uniformity, containing a mixture of small 1 sty. homes, 1 1/2 sty. semi-bungalows, 2 sty. box-type frame, semi-commercial structures and a few large two-families. Developers of this section, Chas. M. Mix and Moses Helper catered primarily to foreign and area has become largely an Italian section mixed with a few Yugo-Slav. families and about 3 colored families. A few properties in area are fairly well kept and range in value from $5500-6000 but they are the exception and constitute over-developments in this neighborhood. This area has a fairly good rental demand because it is the second cheapest neighborhood in Euclid and its proximity to transportation on E. 200th (western boundary) plus the nearness of the desirable Lake Shore Blvd. district has held its popularity for the low income class. Because of its undesirabillity and lack of conformity to other Euclid neighborhood, the abutting territory to the north, west and south remains entirely undeveloped; also Wilmore and Morris in this area are largely undeveloped. Schools, stores and churches are within convenient walking distance. Within the last 10 yrs. a gradual shifting of population in this section has been occurring constituted by the clow moving-out of Italian families who lost their homes and replacement by American families of foreign descent. However, the general character of neighborhood with its small gardens, chicken coops and limited livestock (goats and cows) only strengthens the establishment of this neighborhood as a 4th grade area. (Small extreme southwestern projection includes 3 colored families on Merideth Ave.
Laborers- factory workers- railroaders Hungarian (northern part) German (central part) Few negroes coming in to south end of area. This area is comprised of a long narrow strip which is located along the C.C.C. & St. L. RR (running in a northeasterly direction) and extends all the way from Firsey St., south, to W. 37th, north. The area is 80% built up; 75% of the streets are paved (mostly in the northern and central sections); fairly good transportation, school and shopping facilities. That section of area lying between West Blvd. north to W. 73rd is an old German community; homes here are in fair to good condition and the home ownership ratio approximates 80%. This is by far the best part of the area. The section from W. 73rd north is a Hungarian settlement; the homes in this section range all the way from 25-60 yrs. and are in fair condition. That section of area lying south of West Blvd. is a colored settlement, solidly occupied in that part situated between Jasper and W. 120th. The southern portion lying south of Brookfield is only sparsely built up and utilities are available only in a limited way. It is only fair to assume that this area will widen and affect the adjacent properties in the abutting 3rd grade area. The foreign-born people continue to come into this section at a slow but steady pace as the better native American people emigrate in about the same ratio. Some Negroes area also trickling into the southern part of area. Proximity to industry, railroad yards and Public Square will, undoubtedly, uphold the area's present level for a few years at least.
Factory workers and laborers Slavish Younger generation moving farther west This small area, located in the southeastern section of Lakewood, Ohio, and hemmed in by Madison Park on the northwest and by industry and industrial sites on the southern and eastern boundaries, comprises the earlies foreign (Slavish-Polish) settlement here. It was settled, principally, by workers employed by the National Carbon Co. (located immediately east of area's boundary) who wanted to be conveniently located to their employment. Homes in area average 40-50 yrs.; most of these have been large single dwellings at one time but have since been converted into 2-3 family units. There are several much older homes, a few of which are ripe for demolition. On the other hand, there is still some evidence of good home maintenance. However, as a whole, the area is rapidly on the down grade. About 2 to 3 vacant store rooms are found on each street. Several homes are covered with brick-patent sliding, especially on Robin Ave.; Plover Ave. has the poorest streets in this small foreign community. Being close to Cleveland's Public Square, the area has adequate transportation and school facilities. The old residents remain intact, however, the younger generation is moving to better neighborhood farther west. The area will remain static and any noticeable increase in vacancy ratio will take place only as the old settlers pass on.
Laborers- WPA workers- relief clients Romanian- Hungarian- Slavish- Italian- German of Cosmopolitan This area situated in the extreme northeast corner of Cleveland's west side, is one of the city's oldest residential neighborhoods. Originally settled by Germans and Irish, it slowly bowed to Cleveland's expansion and infiltration of other foreign peoples. Roumanians, Hungarians and Italians migrated here about 30 yrs. ago and now comprise the predominating population elements. The Roumanians settles around W. 48th St. district- the Hungarian and Italian people located between W. 54th and W. 73rd Sts., (largely north of Detroit Ave.) Several old German families are still found along the eastern and central part of the area. The earliest developments of this area was along W. 28th and W. 29th Sts. and here many of the homes are 75 to 80 yrs. old; now fully developed, the area was built up with large 2 sty. single dwellings, many of which were converted into 2-3 family units and rooming houses; (there are a few 1 1/2 sty. homes on each street interspersed with the large converted type). The houses along W. 58th St. and west thereof are in better repair condition-are more modern-have full basements and average 25-30 yrs. Franklin Ave. was once the fashionable district of the west side; two family homes (with round basements) on this street sell for around $3500-$5500 singles and doubles without basements or round cellars from $1800-3500. The main business section of west-side Cleveland is located here; retail business shops run solidly along Lorain, Detroit, Fulton and W. 25th St. There was a small colored settlement in the northeast peak of this area but there homes were razed for the new Main Ave. bridge and also for the Slum Clearance Project. Proximity to Public Square and to industry and because of convenience to transportation, schools, stores, churches, etc. this area will remain attractive to present type of occupants. Transition is to retail stores, light manufacturing establishments and rooming houses.
Factory workers- Laborers- Some Merchants Russian- Slovak- Polish- Syrian-d. Greeks (on northeasterly edge along valley) of mixed foreign This very old 4th grade area, once the "Bon-Ton" neighborhood on the "west side" lies immediately west of the Cuyahoga River and south of Lorain Ave.; the northern and eastern boundaries extend to a cliff which overlook the Cuyahoga River Valley, Originally settled by Germans and occupied by them up to 35-40 yrs. ago, the area saw an influx of Russian, Slovak and Polish people with a lighter infiltration of Syrians and Greeks in later years. The old residents moved to Lakewood, Rocky River and Bay Village. The area was developed generally with large single homes on 20-40' lots with a few 50' in width on Kenilworth Ave. The industrial and commercial expansion of the "west side" was keenly felt by this area. Now bordered by railroads, factories and steel mills on the north and east boundaries and traversed by 3 main heavy trafficked arteries (W. 25th-Scranton-W. 14th St.) this once fashionable and peaceful residential community rapidly gave ground to its inescapable transition. The fair residential parts or what is left of them lie in the southwest corner (west of W. 25th St.) and along Kenilworth in the north part of area; the poorest sections, along the eastern boundary. The large single homes are generally located on Scranton, W. 14th St., Kenilworth and Starkweather. Briefly, the area consists of: 40% large and small single homes, 40% two-family type (90% of which were converted doubles) and 20% three or more family unit dwellings; the latter type is crowded with two homes on one lot-5 homes on 3 lots, etc. Such streets as Vega, Jennings, Scranton, Walton and Seymour were once the area's most fashionable districts. Retail business-stores run solid on W. 25th and very heavy on Scranton and W. 14th Cleveland's Municipal Hospital (largest city hospital in country) is located on Scranton. One of Cleveland's five Govt. Slum Clearance Projects (500 families) is situated in eastern section of area. The Jennings Rd. Project (WPA) when completed, will relieve the heavy traffic congestion on W. 25th St. The area has a 10% vacancy with many uninhabitable units especially in the north-eastern section; vandalism prevails most strongly here. Rental collections are difficult and WPA and Relief Rolls are very heavy. Despite its undesirability, present type of occupants are not scarce in Cleveland and area's characteristics in the main will remain constant for several years.
Laborers (heavy relief) Italian This small area, virtually all negro neighborhood of shacks and small homes, was the result of a movement of colored laborers to this section about 25 yrs. ago in the hope of securing employment with the Best Foundry and American Stove Co. in Bedford. Realtor's opinion is that this neighborhood was originally formed on a "squatter's rights" basis, later settled by claim and deed conveyance for small sums so that most properties are actually owned. Population of this neighborhood is about 50 colored families and some 7 or 8 Italian families within border. Occupancy is full and, although little rental information is available, it is thought that any tenancy is on some future sales arrangement. The City of Bedford has no interest in, and will not annex, this little community known as "Lincoln Heights" for its relief rolls are heavy and area is unpaved and lacks all utility facilities except electricity in some parts. It was also stated that most residents in this neighborhood are employed in Cleveland and not in Bedford. Because of its cheapness (even to colored) and distance from Cleveland (employment source) it is not believed this colored community will expand and probably will decrease within the next few years with the rise in number of uninhabitable units.
Laborers - factory workers Hungarian Negro community decreasing This area is flat; unwooded - was developed about 35-40 years ago and colored infiltration came within a year after the first few homes were built. The streets are unpaved but all utilities are in. The section is sprinkled with shacks and the whole neighborhood presents a more or less shoddy appearance. The neighborhood, however, is law abiding and gives no trouble to the law enforcement bureau. About two years ago strong effort began to decrease the colored occupancy of this area and has resulted in the moving of 23 families (only 50 remaining) some of whom were moved at the city's expense. In each case the removal of a colored family caused the occupancy of a white family in this neighborhood. There is also a tendency towards improvement in the physical appearance of the community during this same period. Longwood is entirely owned by white - Sterling has not been opened.
Laborers - factory workers Slovaks - few Germans Potential influx of Negro This area is the least desirable neighborhood in Garfield Heights. Immediate proximity to negro settlement abutting north boundary - absence of transportation - lack of sewers - unpaved streets and general isolation all have taken their toll. This community was developed about 20-25 years ago and then stopped with the influx of negroes into abutting area. At present, property can be sold only at sacrifice and mortgage money is not available which indicates that potentially this neighborhood will eventually be taken over by negroes with improvement in their financial condition. Approximately 30 homes are located in this area; developed about 40%; no further development is anticipated for white ownership.