Laborers At present time area is spotted with shacks; houses are built on the rear of lots. As general conditions improve it is expected that there will be an increase in the cheaper type of home. Low Red.  Poor transportation, outside city limits, unrestricted unimproved.
Laborers Low Red. Good transportation and schools. Mixture of low class foreigners - Polish, Russian, Hungarian and negro. Old houses in bad repair.
Laborers Low Red. Good schools and transportation Mixture negro and poor white.
Clerks - laborers Larger older type houses being converted into income properties by converting into small apartments and rooming houses. Medium red. Good transportation; adjoins center of city. Zoned for business; old houses.
Clerks-laborers Low Red. Good transportation and schools. Old houses being converted into cheap rooming house section
Laborers Low Red None except good schools No plat restrictions, poor construction, poor transportation
Laborers Low Red  Entire area consists of shacks on rear of lots; no street improvements; no plat restrictions; inhabited by low class of white people; poor transportation.
Laborer Indications are that entire section will become industrial area. Low red.  Close to railroad tracks and industrial plants, bad odors, noisy.
Laborer Trend towards industrial - Low red. Good transportation - Good schools Stockyards - packing houses and fertilizer plants adjacent to area.
Laborers Along highway approaching Wright Field, U.S. Army Post. Low Red. Good schools Poor transportation; low class white; poorly constructed buildings
Lowest type laborer Entire area built up with poorly constructed buildings and shacks. Very poor class of white people intermingling with negro. Low Red. Good schools. Poor transportation; plant unrestricted; no improvements.
Laborers Low Red. Good schools, good transportation Bad odors from industrial plants; old section.
Clerks-mechanics Some of the larger older type houses are being made into two and three family apartments. Also becoming a rooming house area. Medium Red. Adjacent to center of city; good transportation; good schools. Very low; one of oldest sections of city.
Clerks - Laborers Close to city; trend towards room houses and apartments. Low Red. Good transportation - good schools Older section of city, negroes moving in.
Railroad men, shopmen and laborers. This section near town; B & O Shops; Buckeye Reliner (Inner tubes); Gro-Cord (soles and heels compositions); Buckeye Machine Co. (Diesel Engines). Good neighborhood for factory and railroad workers.  Railroad traverses area. Utilities incomplete. North of Railroad.
common laborers Section was used formerly as a dump along the river. This sent trend downward but dump has been cleared up and stadium now built over it. A better class of people than in D-4. Area is close to center of city and a lot of remodeling and improvements. All utilities; new high school stadium; Lincoln Park; Grade School in area; Churches; Stores Old section; properties allowed to depreciate seriously.
white - laboring; colored - laboring This originally was a section on the fringe of the city. As the town grew, better types of home construction developed around this area. The colored owners are able to meet assessments for paving, sewers, water mains, etc. They have their own church here and are determined to remain in this area. Located between green, blue and yellow area.  negro population mostly.
Common laborers Laid out in 25 foot lots and people built little shanties; this type persisted.  Next to cemetery; all 25 ft. lots; cheap, shoddy construction; Utilities only on Spencerville Road.
Factory workers; Railroad workers A good section for those who work in factories. Near Lima Locomotive Works; Standard Oil Company; Woolen Mills. Park in area - Hoover Park. Grade school in area. Business center at Main and Vine street, also at Vine and Metcalf. Gas, water, electricity, sewer. Smoke from Lake Erie, Nickel Plat Railroad Shops and Standard Oil Refinery
laborers Area will eventually build up because of its desirability as a home for those employed in nearby factories. Proximity to Locomotive Works, Ohio Steel Foundry and Westinghouse Company. Near School, stores, churches. General cheap construction of homes
Factory workers Very old neighborhood Near shopping district Smoke from Industrial Section to the north
White collared & laboring  a comparatively new addition. Fairly good section for laboring class. Good transportation- not far from beach.  Adjoins Railroad on North.
white collared to laboring  Comparatively new addition.
Factory workers Negro concentration vicinity 31st and Fulton. Area popular with steel plant employees in low wage brackets. Large shade trees- All utilities in- large lots- wide streets, good set back Smoke and noise of steel plant
Laboring  Nice homes along East 31st Street. Located in South-east end of city limits. Poor homes along Norfolk; Camden and Tacoma Streets.  Good transportation; near Oakwood Park.
Laborers Rent decline due to improvidence of occupants. All work in Republic Steel, about 3 blocks away from the area. Close to mill. Business center available. Schools near, within walking distance of shopping center. Concentration of disorderly houses along Fulton Street. Heavy paving assessment on Fulton Street. So. Park Ave Walnut street. Low grade population.
 Not quite as good as D-1, 20% lower rentals, 50% lower sales values. City dump adjacent to this property on west. Dump between Hayden and Steele Sts. Near Republic Steel Mill. Neighborhood stores. Old property - Overflow at times of high water no schools.
Factory workers Section was built around old Western Reserve Steel Mill. This mill is gone now. This section probably worst in the city. Air Reduction Sales Company. Chicago Car Roofing Co. One Steel Mill also in area. School but no churches. Bus transportation. B&O Railroad & Earie R.R. pass through area. Some streets unimproved
Low grade factory workers Warren City Tank & Boiler Company has offices south central section of this area. Loan commitments about 20% of appraisals here. Area has slight tendency to increase of colored population. Proximity to Packard. Sunlight Warren City Tank & Boiler Co. Grinnell Company, Youngstown Pressed Steel etc. Very bad planning and poorly built homes
Laborers An old section on bank of river occupied by a low grade of Negro population as a whole. All city conveniences -- close to principal business section; churches and stores in area; not far distant to school. Type of population; in Conservancy Tax District; restricted district in area.
Clerical, cheap mechanics and laborers. An old section joining main business section, containing many cheap rooming houses, mixed population and mixed type of house. All city conveniences; joining principal business district; schools and churches in area. Railroad tracks through area; old properties; some cheaper stores; cheap rooming houses; some cheap saloons in area; many of houses lack bathrooms. In Conservancy Tax District.
Cheap laborers, and mechanics. Area of small, old houses on narrow lots with badly mixed type of population. All city conveniences; adequate transportation; schools, churches, and stores in area. Mixed type of population; age of properties; western part in Conservancy Tax District.
Cheap mechanics and laborers. An old area of small cottage type houses built on narrow lots without modern conveniences and not well maintained. Adequate transportation; all city conveniences; school at east end of area; churches and stores in area. Industrial plants on west and east; older properties not well maintained; small lots.
Factory workers and cheap laborers. An area of very cheaply constructed houses occupied by a lower grade type of factory laborer. Adequate transportation -- close to business center. Lacking in utilities -- lower type of population -- industrial plants on west -- Jerry built houses.
factory workers A few fine old houses located here. Was a better neighborhood many years back. Now on down grade. Concentration of nice homes along 11th Street between Chillicothe and Washington.  Transportation; schools. Near to downtown business section. Near factories Very old neighborhood. Subject to occasional floods; rail-road traverses through area.
laborers, factory workers Not entirely free from flood hazard; Negro population, 25%; Area now on downgrade. Low percentage of home ownership. Transportation; near schools and churches; near business section; near factories. Railroad traverses through area; colored population in northern part of area.
 Area heavily damaged by flood in 1937 Same as D - I but no negro population
 Area heavily damaged by flood in 1937.  Transportation; near schools and churches; near factories Same as D-1 but no negro population
factory workers and laborers A scattering of small diversified businesses along central part of area. Heavy vehicular traffic on Gallia Avenue. Transportation - Streets. Swimming pool on Northwest corner of area Adjoins railroad and junk yard on south. Not free from flood hazard.
steel workers and laborers Community of steel workers and railroad shop men. Will probably remain static for next few years. A few better type homes. Not free from flood hazard. Transportation; near schools Smoke nuisance from railroad and steel plant. Steep hills on North.
Unskilled laborers Mostly cheap houses. Not near to city or industry. Poorest section in city. No activity. Located in extreme N.E. section of Portsmouth.   All Jerry built homes - poor transportation -
shopmen Rather cheaply constructed properties and poorly developed. Very little demand. Trend seems to be downward. transportation near to industry on the South; near RR. Poor streets.
laborers This ranks with the poorest white residential sections in Springfield. All jerry-built homes. Cheap and very poorly constructed. Lending funds are not available. Inhabited by a lower class of whites.  poor transportation; poor streets; very cheap construction.
common laborers Old, cheap and poor neighborhood. Sales activity is poor. Slightly better homes in South-west section of area.  low land: RR.
laborers & shopmen An older section of the city; influx of colored population. Little or no demand for homes. Old properties and in poor state of repair. Trend of desirability is downward. About the lowest red area in Springfield. good transportation Adjoins Buck creek and industrial plants, smoke, dirt and noise.
shopmen & laborers Heavily populated by colored people. Old section of city. Little demand. Trend is downward good transportation abuts R.R. and shops. Smoke, dirt and noise.
common laborers, maids, servants, etc. This is an old colored area surrounded by a very good white residential section. Blue area around this section cuts off abruptly as shown in security map. The better type of colored people reside here. transportation and schools. colored
laborers Population in this area is 50 colored. Trend is downward. Demand is only fair. Homes are only in fair state of repair. transportation; schools. Adjoins RR and industry
common labor Population in his area is 60% colored. Trend is downward; Demand is poor. Homes are only in fair repair. transportation; near schools. Colored population predominates.
Factory workers Fairly clean as Class "D" areas go. Poor class of residents. No demand for sale.  Unpaved streets, narrow lots. Proximity to railroad, industrial and cemetery.
Common labor A cheap run down neighborhood, generally. A Government tenancy project was completed last month. Occupants are all colored. Area surrounding project, however, is bad. Large number of houses being demolished by owners and otherwise. Proximity to business district and few industries. Old, cheap homes.
Common laborers Lies south of Swan Creek and New York Central railroad. Suffers from smoke, dirt, and all around bad influences. Colored area. Close to industries. Located on or near new super highway. (Canal Boulevard). Unpaved streets, narrow lots. Proximity to railroad and Swan Creek.
Laborers Mostly occupied by workers employed in neighboring glass industry. Located in Wood County. Unincorporated village. Proximity to glass industry. River view. Narrow lots. Poor improvements.
Railroad and factory workers Very old residential district. Suffers from industrial encroachments. Some very cheap properties along southern section of area. Proximity to industries. Fairly good transportation. Transversed by railroads, smoke, dirt, and general obsolescence.
Factory workers and railroad workers Some fairly nice homes in central part of area. Lies south of public park. Adjoins park. Borders on railroad. Few unpaved streets. Narrow lots. Somewhat inaccessible due to change on Broadway.
 Some better homes in the vicinity of Stickney. Suffers from smoke and dirt from prevailing winds. Transportation. Abutts cemetery. Swamps and hollows.
Factory and common laborers Area lies in north-east outskirts of city. Formerly a white neighborhood; now rapidly being run down through influx of colored and low income group of whites. Heavy relief load. High vacancy ratio. Good transportation; streets; Convenient to schools, churches and shopping district; adjoins Bay View Park recreation and amusement. Scenic features. Poor maintenance; influx of colored population and low income group whites.
Indigents and common laborers Zoned light industrial. A few fairly decent homes left in entire area. On whole it is least desirable of any area in town, from a residential standpoint. Paved streets. Cheap run-down community rapidly transcending to light industrial and commercial occupancy. Oldest slum district in town.
Mill workers and laborers One of poorer and undesirable residential districts. Trend is rapidly downward. Better class of occupants are moving away. Practically all single type homes interspersed by shacks. Property, if acquired, should be sold promptly. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools. Walking distance to the steel mills. Instability of incomes of area's occupants. Difficulty of rental collections. Low standards of living. Generally undesirable with increasing negro population. Noise, smoke and dirt from railroad and industry.
Mill workers and laborers This area is generally referred to as Monkey's Next and Briar Hill district. Slum elimination project is in progress covering section lying between Ardale, Griffith, and Morrison avenues in the south end of area. Generally undesirable. Property, if acquired, should be sold promptly. Trend is definitely downward. Good streets and transportation. Convenience to schools and churches. Within walking distance to industry. Noise, smoke and dirt from industries and railroads. Low standards of living, instability of income of area's occupants. Difficulty of rental collections. Infiltration of negro element.
White collared, mill workers and laborers Evergrowing influx of negroes and low class Jewish in the westerly end. Many of the homes are being converted into rooming houses. Better type occupants are moving elsewhere. Trend is downward and property, if acquired, should be sold as rapidly as possible. Was once the Bon Ton street of Youngstown. A few of the "old" mansions still remain on Wick Avenue. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools, churches, near business center. Art Gallery is located here. Business encroachment all along Which Avenue. Infiltration of lower income group whites. Negro population increasing.
Mill workers and laborers the southwesterly half is a portion of the oldest settlement in Youngstown. Depreciating very rapidly except along the north-easterly section lying south of McGuffey Road and Stewart avenue. Better type occupants are moving elsewhere. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held. Good streets; transportation. Convenient to schools, churches. Close to business center and industry. Infiltration of lower income group. Low standards of living. Increasing negro population. Northwest section is sparsely developed. Smoke, dirt and noise from industry.
Mill workers and laborers Known as Sharon Line district or the "Harlem" of Youngstown. Considered the poorest and cheapest residential area in the whole city. Original "soup kitchens" during the depression were in this area. Banks are selling very good houses in this area for about $2000-2500 or about 40*cents on the dollar. In fact, they will consider any offer within reason. Fairly good streets; transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Heavy negro population. Low standards of living. Difficulty of rental collection. Instability of income of area's occupants. Consists of shacks and single family homes. Cheap, dirty, and generally undesirable location.
Mill workers and laborers Small sports of negroes settling all through the area thereby threatening the entire district. Better homes ranging around $4000-5000 are located south of west Woodland avenue and west of Hollmen Street. One of oldest residential sections in Youngstown. Trend is downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold rather than held. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Near business center and industry. Adjoins public park on west boundary. Slight infiltration of Negro population. Both sides of Market Street is being taken over by stores. Very old section of city. Dirt and noise. On the down grade.
Mill workers, laborers, hotel workers A small colored area surrounded by "Yellow" district. This colored section is spreading out in the north and easterly directions, threatening desirability of surrounding territory. Trend is downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold promptly as values are declining. Good streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Instability of income of area's occupants. Area is 75% "colored". Generally undesirable to people other than negroes.
Mill workers and common laborers The entire district has a poor reputation. Good families are rapidly vacating. Values are declining. Area comprises all of Campbell, Ohio, with the exception of northerly part bounded by McCartney Rd. and Tenney Ave. between 12th and 17th Sts. Foreign population 40%; negro, 40%. Colored people are scattering through the area. Property, if acquired, should be sold as quickly as possible. Properties consist of singles, ranging all the way from $1000-10,000. No uniformity. Area is attractive only to foreign and colored mill workers because of its immediate proximity to the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company plant. Good transportation and streets. Convenient to schools, churches and market. Close to steel mills. Difficulty of rental collections. Smoke, dirt and noise from steel mills. Lack of upkeep and general maintenance. Infiltration of negroes and lower class whites. Generally undesirable.
Mill workers and common laborers A small section of undesirable negro population. Certainly the poorest location in Struthers, Ohio. Values are rapidly declining, and property, if acquired, should be sold as quickly as possible. Good streets and transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Outlying. Homes are neglected and entire area is generally run-down and dirty. Colored population is 90 percent.
Mill workers & laborers Fairly good location for cheaper type of labor. A mixed foreign community. Negroes constitute 5% of community. Slight increase in scale and rental values during past 12 months. Good transportation - near schools, both Public and Parochial. Adjoins factory on south - Area is affected somewhat by smoke and dirt.
Common laborers A good many dilapidated and vacant rooming houses that are uninhabitable. Many vacant store rooms on main streets. This area is occupied by the lowest social class in this city. Very poor sale demand. No increase in values during past 12 months.  Good transportation - near school Adjoins factories on the east; business center of lowest type - dirt and filth and degrading neighborhood.
Laboring class This is an old German settlement slowly declining and being replicated gradually by foreigners and lower wage class American and some negroes. Not far from downtown business section. Property values were static past 12 months. Good transportation Railroad runs through center and extreme southeastern part of area; affected by smoke and dirt.
Millworkers & laborers This is an Italian community. Fairly good neighborhood for lower bracket earners. Poor sales activity. Not much prospect for improvement. Property values remained static past 12 months.  Transportation - good streets; church and schools.  On extreme southeast Corporation line; adjoins Railroad on north.
Laborers This is a colored section - lower class of Jews and Italians - old section of the city. No demand for sales. No increase in sale or rental values during past 12 months. Transportation - schools and church Adjoins factory on north and railroad on northeast; also scattered factories through area.
Factory workers Fairly good section for laboring class. An old American settlement Area is interspersed by small retail business shops. One of the older areas in the city. Values were reported static for past 12 months.  Good streets - transportation Adjoins light manufacturing on southwest - railroad runs through center of section.
Laborers and mill workers This was a good neighborhood for the lower bracket earners in the peak years. Slightly better than area "D-2" and "D-5" but heavily populated by foreign-born and is on the downward trend. No improvements in values during past 12 months. Good transportation - schools Adjoins factories on south and east; smoke and dirt.
Common laborers This section was laid out in about 1900. Built up 50%; average lot front, 40 feet; 40 foot streets; 50% streets paved, balance cindered or graded. Good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores. Heavy vehicular traffic along Cuyahoga Street. Buildings on this artery are older and in poorer state of repair than in the balance of this area. "Jerry" building predominates in west end of section. Heavy foreign occupancy (Italian predominating) slowly increasing; colored infiltration negligible. Property values in northern part of area affected by odors of nearby Akron Soap Works. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. Homes are generally of single construction.
Common laborers This area, known as the older part of Lakemore, borders the southern shore of Springfield Lake and lies just outside the southeastern city limits of Akron. No paved streets. No utilities excepting electricity. Slightly better type homes fronting the Lake such as summer cottages, etc., gas is available to the properties bordering the lake front. 80% built up. Influx of lower income group; very poor repair. No sewage system. Decided evidence of lack up upkeep; narrow unimproved streets; very narrow lots; outlying and isolated. Very shoddy construction; inadequate fire and police protection; rural schools and churches; vandalism high in cases of vacant houses. Low living standards. Property, if acquired, should be disposed of at any price. There are about 8 houses in the Mount View district ranging in price up to $2500
Common laborers This section is about 35 years old; built up 65%; 75% of streets are paved - 25% graveled and cindered. Average lot front 40 feet; good transportation; within easy walking distance to downtown business center. Heavy traffic along Wooster Road and Hopocan Street; houses range in price of $1200 - 2500; mostly in poor state of repair; area is generally run down. Colored occupancy centered along Brown and Van Streets. This is a slowly declining neighborhood. Practically all houses in this area are of cheap single construction.
Common labor This section is known as "Snydertown"; laid out about 1916; now 35% built up; houses range in price of $300 - 1500; consists chiefly of shacks. This is the cheapest residential neighborhood in Barberton. Income of occupants is very low and unstable. Inadequate facilities for sewage disposal. No utilities in area except water and electricity. Public school between Bell and Van Buren Streets. Unemployment and relief rolls are very heavy; about 20% of streets are paved. This area is rapidly declining and property, if acquired, should be sold for any reasonable offer.
Factory workers and common laborers An allotment of shacks; poor streets; no sewer; type of home owners are of low income class. An isolated section east of the city proper. 10% of area is built up. This is the poorest section in Cuyahoga Falls. No public utilities except water on one street. Very long distance to schools, churches and stores. Generally speaking, the area suffers from: lack of adequate fire protection; instability income of area's occupants; difficulty of rental collections; low standards of living and in general gives every evidence of a rapid downward trend. Relief load is heavy. Property, if acquired, should be sold for any reasonable offer.
Laborers "This area, known as Cuyahoga Valley Section, was platted about 60 years ago; retrogressed with age although northwestern part remained fair residential until this area was severely damaged by flood in 1913. However, death blow to desirability of this area was the complete diversion of N. Howard Street traffic by construction of the North Main Street Viaduct over this entire section in 1926.
Built up 80% at least. Average lot front 40 feet. Paved streets; good transportation. Convenient to schools and within walking distance to downtown business section. Elizabeth Park and Fountain Park are located in this area. Traversed by two railroads and Little Cuyahoga River. Shoddy construction, poor repair. Area on the whole suffers from a general run-down condition and bad reputation. Red-light district located on North, Ridge, Lods, Furnace and Spring Streets. Area is heavily populated by foreign-born and colored. Low standard of living; high concentration of undesirable element. (4 policemen killed here in 1918). Only property selling is that for light commercial and warehouse purposes.
Property, if acquired, should be sold at once. Central portion beginning at hub of Spring Street and N. Howard is known as Akron's main slum concentration.
Laborers and gardeners "This section, known as Shantytown, lies west of the Akron city limits and is comprised of small cottages and shacks ranging in price from $300 - 1800. A small number of occupants have home-made hot beds and greenhouses and derive their livelihood from this source. Soil consists of rich muck suitable for gardening. No paved streets. No utilities except electricity. Considerable distance to school; one mile to bus line on Copley. Akron Belt Line and Copley swamp ditch traverses through area. Four negro families on Columbus Avenue; fertility of soil and cheapness of lot prices (lots at $50 - 75) is main attraction to purchasers with meager earning power. Trend is static.
Property, if acquired, should be sold for any reasonable offer. Area is built up 10%.
Rubber workers and laborers "Laid out about 1905; known as main Jewish shopping district; paved streets; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and stores; located just south of Perkins Park; level terrain. Most of the area lying south of Bartges Street has soft foundation due to nearby Summit Lake (southern boundary).
Homes located on Norka, Raymond and the south end Snyder, Scheck, Metzger and Bowery Street are out of "plumb" owing to the shifting foundation. Heavy traffic along Wooster Avenue, Thornton and Bowery Streets. District affected by odors, smoke, and dirt from nearby Goodrich Rubber Company plant. Acquired property if not sold immediately will suffer from vandalism.
Declining district, heavily populated by low class Jews - all stores on Wooster Avenue (traversing artery) are Jewish-owned. Present heavy negro encroachment gradually increasing.
Rubber workers and common laborers "Laid out about 1880. Built up 85%; all paved streets; good transportation; good school facilities; walking distance to downtown business center; near industry; average lot frontage - 40 feet; level to rolling terrain. Central eastern part once was known as "Hell's Kitchen," central southern part is known as "Little Italy," and figured heavily in liquor traffic during Prohibition. Main traffic arteries (NS) High, Washington and Grant Streets, (EW) Stanton, Miller, and Thornton Avenues. Entire area is detrimentally affected by smoke, dirt, noise and odors from railroads and rubber factories.
A small vice district is centered in the north end of area along Chestnut Alley and Halstead Street. The colored people are scattered throughout. Entire area is badly in need of paint and repair. Homes in the south end of the district are kept up better. Declining but not rapidly.
Property, if acquired, should be sold for reasonable offer. Practically all homes located in this area are of single construction.
Factory workers and servant, colored "One of Akron's oldest residential districts. Convenience in location to industry and downtown retail center makes it attractive to lower income group. Akron University is located here. (Present school attendance 1500 - 2000 students).
All paved streets; good transportation; convenient to Akron University, Central High School, grade schools, churches and stores. Fully 65% built up. Average lot front 40 feet; level terrain. Heavy traffic along Carroll Street. Colored influx appears to be static. Colored residential area of the better type and own their own homes. The majority of the colored are located on Scott Avenue and James Street. Area should retain its present level for several years.
Property values here are better than in any of the other "Red" areas. Vacant land fronting on railroad was original site of International Harvester Company now located in Chicago. This land has been proposed as location for new railroad Terminal although prospect of construction in near future is remote.
Property, if acquired, should not be sacrificed.
Factory workers and laborers "The very oldest section in the city, formerly known as Middlebury, Ohio. Built up 75%; average lot front - 40 feet. Paved streets; good transportation; fair school facilities; hilly terrain. Heavy vehicular traffic along Eastland, Newton and Case Avenues. Two lumber yards located in center of area. Smoke, dirt, and noise from railroads; lack of upkeep; area has general appearance of a declining district. Colored population (15%) is scattered throughout entire district. Homes located in southeast end of area are kept up better. Case Avenue has completely changed to commercial and light manufacture. On the whole, it is declining area.
Property, if acquired, should be sold. Practically all homes are of single construction.
Factory workers "Laid out in 1915 and known as The Hannah S. Allyn Allotment; lots, 40 x 120; built up 80%; 80% of streets are paved; remainder cindered or graveled. Good transportation; good school facilities; near to stores, shopping; located midway between Goodrich and Goodyear factories. Level terrain.
Heavy traffic along Brown Street. Colored population (15%) scattered throughout entire area. Neighborhood should retain its present level for next 10 yrs.
Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed.
90% of the homes in this area are of the single construction. Large clay pit, kilns and tile works border most of the western end of this section. Traversed by belt line railroad in west part. Main arteries are (NS) Brown Street., (EW) Crosier, Morgan and McKinley.
Factory workers "Built up 80%; average lot frontage - 40 feet; 75% of streets paved - remainder cindered or graveled; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and stores; within walking distance to industry; fairly level terrain.
Colored population (15%) scattered throughout area; the small section lying east of Kelly Avenue is poorest in area. Affected by smoke, noise, and dirt from railroads. Balance of area should retain its present level for a few years at least.
Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. 90% of the homes in this area are of single construction.
Factory workers and laborers This is the poorest residential section in Berea. Comprised mostly of old, cheaply constructed homes and shacks. Populated by 50% Negro & 30% Foreign. Flat terrain. Lots 30-50 x 100; Pearl Rd. is paved -- all others slag and cindered; all utilities installed; good transportation; abuts railroad along northern boundary; Dunham Foundry, Ohio Nut & Bolt Co. and the Foxy Toy Co. located in this area. Many of the occupants are employed there. The Dunham Co. brought colored people from the south to work in this foundry. Employs about a third of them now (formerly 1000 now 300). The boundaries of this area will remain pretty much intact. The better people are slowly moving out. Rental collections are difficult and real estate activity is stagnant. Mortgage money is unobtainable. No HOLC or other institutional sales reported in this area during past three years. Trend is rapidly downward. Accordingly, the area is given a very poor fourth grade rating.
Laborers This small totally colored community was the result of an independent movement and development surrounding the construction of their church in this area some 25 years ago. No streets are paved and lack of maintenance through the years has given this area its name of "Shantytown". Presence of this community has had a very detrimental effect on surrounding area property values, particularly to the immediate south. Utilities are available to area. This section is now about 75-80% built up and, apparently, is solidly entrenched, in fact this area, prior to Miles Heights annexation to Cleveland in 1932, was able to elect a negro as Mayor of Miles Heights. Area will remain static but may spread into Garfield Heights (S.W) if the purchasing power of the colored residents increases enough to buy this property, (lying to south) now in the $1800-3500 bracket which has virtually no market for white due to proximity to this colored neighborhood.
Workingmen - mechanics - craftsmen, etc. This small workingmen's district has been given a 4th grade rating due to complete isolation (only one outlet), heavy turnover in foreclosures just now being completed, complete encirclement by industrial zoned property, adjacency to industry (Cleveland Illuminating Co.) on west border and proximity to Erie RR (north boundary) over which children in area must traverse to and from school. Area is approx. 1/2 mile from schools, 1 mile from churches, 1/2 mile to stores. Transportation is along Miles Ave. just north of area. High taxes, prior to annexation, due to pavement of streets brought on a heavy foreclosures rate but change of ownership has been virtually completed. Area is now 75% built up, but contains in all only about 40-50 homes. No improvement in area is looked for in the future except new ownership should be stable. Greatest disadvantage to area is its single outlet over the Erie RR to Miles Ave.
Laborers - Small business owners - Peddlers (Heavy relied rolls) This area's development began about 25 years ago and was featured by the heavy percentage of "Jerry-type" construction throughout. Almost immediately the commercial district along Kinsman became solidly Jewish-owned and a heavy infiltration of Russian-Jewish and Italian occurred between 1920-30 and although slower since then has continued up to date. Beginning with about 1928 a movement of colored from the downtown areas started in this section and progressed with moderate success up until about 3 years ago when the movement became more pronounced, and at present is continuing steadily. The heavy slump in price valuation in property in this area occurring following the depression made some recovery up to 1937 with improved general business conditions but is again sliding due to lack of maintenance and constant infiltration from these elements. A boom of commercial property along Kinsman Rd. was experienced in 1928 but collapsed and did not materially affect residential property values. This area throughout shows poor maintenance and rapid depreciation of property is characteristic of these inhabitants. Informed realtor's opinion is that this section should have been, at the outset, developed for colored occupancy as an overflow outlet for the strong movement that has progressed into the northeastern part of Cleveland. However no concerted effort was made and the present occupancy has resulted from the normal characteristic of colored infiltration into Jewish & Italian neighborhoods with the obsolescence of property due to lack of maintenance. The apparent future for this area will be an increasing occupancy ratio by Jewish, Italian and colored with a steady fall in price value.
Predominantly steel and factory workers This older section (entire western and southern boundary abutting industry and railroad property) gradually rises on a slope to the east from E. 93rd St. Section was developed first about 40 yrs. ago in the western part and area is now 98% built up on lots ranging from 30-35' frontage (only two streets, now partially filled in, remain undeveloped). This area naturally is detrimentally affected by smoke, dirt and soot from adjacent railroads, foundries and steel and iron works. Homes west of E. 93rd are smallest and cheapest; homes along eastern boundary of area and such streets as Raymond and Heath are better and average about 25 yrs. age. Main thoroughfares for this section are E. 93rd (crosstown connection) and Union and Aetna Aves. (east-west). The commercial district is scattered along E. 93rd, heaviest at E. 93rd and Union and extreme north boundary abutting Erie RR are smaller and cheaper conforming with homes west of E. 93rd as mentioned above. This area's occupants contains a large percentage of Slovaks and many long time resident Irish hold here by the Catholic parishes at St. Catherine Ave. & E. 93rd and at Aetna Rd. and E. 93rd St. Some small volume of mortgage lending still continues in this section on a limited basis, principally on better kept property surrounding the churches. However the age of property, complete development (congested due to small lots) and detrimental influence of nearby industry penalizes this area to 4th grade class, although it still has desirability as a factory worker's district within walking distance to employment at the western boundary consisting of such firms as the Allyne Ryan Foundry, Draper Barrel & Drum Co., Pneumatic Tool, Champion Rivet and several other small steel & iron concerns.
Mechanics - Steel workers - Laborers This workingman's "thoroughfare" district has suffered from many setbacks and detrimental influences over the past 50 yrs. Originally the American Steel & Wire Co. (formerly abutting area on the north) employed many occupants of area but moved its plant to Lorain, Ohio, throwing most of these people out of employment and their homes on the market. The area is affected by noise, soot and dirt of railroads, nearby industry, and very heavy vehicular traffic. The elevation of the Penna. R.R. dissecting the area, improved traffic but detrimentally affected surrounding property values and caused the main thoroughfares in northern part (Broadway & Harvard) to change grade and dip at their intersection. Home sin this northern half are much older (avg. 45-50 yrs.) than in southern part (avg. 18-22 yrs.). Polish occupancy is principally along side streets off Broadway in northern part. There is a scattering of Italian through southwesterly corner, principally in homes in edge overlooking the industrial ravine to the west. The commercial district is centered at Broadway & Harvard but light commercial structures continue along those thoroughfares and northern part of Warner Rd. Future for this 4th grade area, due to slow foreign encroachment -- age of properties -- dissection by railroads -- and proximity to industry, will be slowly down.
Steel workers This heavily concentrated Polish neighborhood, primarily a steel and factory worker's district, is about 50 yrs. old in the portion north of Fleet and along Broadway; about 10-15 yrs. younger in part of area west of E. 71st St. and south of Fleet. Industrial property and railroads virtually surround this area except that part of southwesterly boundary abutting Washington Park. Most of the inhabitants here are employed by Republic, Otis, U.S. Steel and Aluminum Co. of America (abutting area.) The area is distinguished by its heavy concentration of 2-family homes, not located in any particular section but grouped in sets of 10-12 -- apparently built in rows by contractors. Several long one-floor plan singles (approx. 5% of total) have been converted into 2-family utility. Here and there pride of ownership is evident in inexpensive improvement, such as new lawns and upkeep of shrubbery but on the whole, limited income of these residents leaves much to be desired in renovation. The small commercial structures are scattered along thorofares of Broadway, Fleet, Aetna and Harvard. Area has good transportation, school and social centers, such as lodges and halls; two large Polish Catholic Churches are located in 3rd grade neighborhood surrounded by this area. Main shopping center for this district is located in 4th grade area to the north along Broadway. This fully built-up section, although old and detrimentally affected by smoke, soot, fumes and dirt, is stable due to the type of inhabitants, (Polish), high home ownership ratio and proximity of employment.
Steel workers This Broadway-East 55th Section has the largest shopping center immediately southeast of the downtown area and contains the highest concentration of Bohemian population including their social centers of churches, halls, schools, and lodges. This area is primarily a steel factory worker's district (Republic, Otis and U.S. Steel about western boundary). The stability of population and gregarious instinct of the inhabitants has held the desirability of this neighborhood beyond its detrimental influences such as smoke, dirt, and soot from industry and noise of heavy traffic. Consequently rental and sales demand has always been good although these people are "thight raders". This area has ample transportation, school, church and social facilities. There is an evident pride of home ownership although income of owners is too small to permit regular exterior painting and other modernization. The trend of this neighborhood will remain mostly unchanged except for the gradual obsolescence of property due to age. Although owner occupancy has been shown as 85%, the thrifty habit of these people in purchasing adjacent property should qualify in the strong holding of an additional 10% by individuals (in other words, not unwillingly hold). A very strong effort has been maintained to limit the inhabitants of this area to white only and no negro encroachment is anticipated, although approximately 10 negro families are located in the northernmost section along E. 33rd. Area is 100% built up.
Laborers - Few steel workers - warehouse & market workers This area, almost completely surrounded by industrial concentration, is the second most undesirable residential area on the east side. Up until 12 years ago it was almost solidly occupied by Hungarian and Slovak population but with the lessening of industrial activity and lack of upkeep in dwellings, a steady movement of Hungarian families from this neighborhood brought an immediate infiltration of colored from the Outhwaite section lying to the northwest. This infiltration has continued, principally, along Kinsman in the northwestern part of area. At present, property values have virtually reached their maximum depreciation and sales are almost at a standstill except for speculative purposes by owners with purpose of renting to colored in mind for higher rental income. Responsibility for this change was hastened by the electrification of the New York Central RR lines, which in many cases made dead-end streets, and the closing of factories in the depression following '29. The general detriments caused by proximity to industry are all apparent and the lack of upkeep in property will continue to attract colored occupancy. The main thoroughfare for this district is Kinsman Rd. along which commercial property is scattered. The only possible improvement or change from the present rate of colored infiltration would be the renewal of industrial activity which would attract white factory workers back to this area thus creating a market for the sale of heavy institutional holdings. Social facilities are noticeably lacking in this area consisting of one grade school and one junior high and a few churches. Area is 99% built up.
Laborers - Peddlers - Factory warehouse workers This old downtown, foreign, heavily negro populated section is bordered on two of its three sides by industries and railroads. Area was laid out and developed over 100 years ago into small lots 32 ft. x 120 ft. and developed almost exclusively along side streets with small frame homes many of which have been demolished to make way for commerce along thoroughfares, and to provide room for the existing large warehouses along Broadway south to the railroads. Area has one of the most dense populations in the city. Concentration of negro population in this area is the heaviest in the city. Area is characterized by its heavy relief rolls, high disease and mortality rate, crime and unemployment. This is the most undesirable area in entire city. Food marketing for the city of Cleveland is concentrated in this section which includes the city's largest warehousing and trucking facilities, contains two of Cleveland's four government housing projects. One located in the block formed by Cedar, Central, E. 26th and E. 30th. The other in the block formed by Scovill, Woodland, E. 40th and E. 55th St.
Factory workers This area was platted over 100 years ago and developed into lots on side streets averaging 30 ft x 120 ft. The obsolescence of residences, encroachment of commerce and light industrial plants into this area (due to its age and expiring restrictions) and immediate proximity to the downtown business section, have taken their toll on desirability of this area from a residential standpoint. The present occupants of this section, in many cases, have two dwellings on one lot and the population decrease is occasioned by demolition of dwelling structures which have reached their maximum depreciation to the point that value rests entirely on the land for commercial and light industrial use (average 50¢ per sq. ft.). At the time being, the area is zoned for apartments, commerce and grade "B" (light) industrial. Future for this area lies only in the enhancement of land value for industrial and commercial use.
Laborers- factory workers- railroaders This allotment, known as "Old Lindale", was laid out in 1910 with 25'-40' lots; it is not approximately 50% built up; 40% of streets are paved, remainder dirt and slag (WPA slagged several streets this year); gas, water, light and sewer available to homes already constructed; bus transportation 92o minute service during day) on W. 130th which runs north and south to center of area (W. 130th is scheduled for widening and new pavement in 1940 from the point just completed this year at the railroad (Area C-16) through to Wooster Pike). A grade school is located on Longmead (just north of area) and a Catholic school (St. Paul's) at W. 130th and Bennington; some retail stores are located on W. 130th. There is a gradual infiltration of foreign, principally Italian and Slavish with some negroes. The negro element, which is an overflow settlement from area D-3 (north) is concentrated on Wileon and Wainfleet Aves. in the northwest section of area. Foreclosures here are heavier than average and considerable difficulty is experienced in selling. The single houses range from $800-$4500 and two-family and multiple units, from $3500-5800. Many of the area's occupants are employed in the industries abutting the community. Proximity to industry is area's best claim and it will retain present population for a few years at least, without marked increase of negro infiltration.
All types - laborers - clerks - domestic workers - small business men This large old area was formerly the main residential section of the east side of Cleveland. As early as 1890 it was fairly heavily developed and is now built up almost 100%. Portion of area from Hough Ave. to the south was once a fashionable section of large old mansions now depopulated by the owners and many have been converted into boarding houses and sanatoriums which the balance have been torn down to make way for commercial and apartment structures. The portion of area north of Hough Ave. was formerly the district of business owners and high grade factory workers, which, due to age and infiltration, has now gained a heavy foreign occupancy. The large single homes and heavy development antedated the two family structure popularity so that at present only approximately 10% of the buildings are of the up-and-down 2-family type. This area also falls into two rental medium groups -- south of Hough Ave. rental medium is approximately $35-45; north of Hough rentals are $25-35. The area has gone rapidly to commercial structures along its main arteries such as: St. Clair, Superior, Wade Park, Hough and Euclid. The southeastern corner of area includes the largest shopping and commercial center east of the downtown business district at the intersection of E. 105th and Euclid. Stability of area, particularly southern part, depends primarily on its potential growth as the largest apartment section immediately east of the downtown area. As for the central and northern part, gradual obsolescence of single-family homes hold very little except a slow declining future. Center of area contains "red-light district" concentrated at Hough and E. 79th St. spreading over several blocks, principally to the east and west.
(White) Peddlers - Junk Dealers - Small Business Men - Laborers (Colored) Service workers - Domestic - Waiters - Porters, etc. This area, although somewhat younger than the 4th grade area immediately to the west, is a continuation of the negro belt but has experienced, to a lesser degree, the detrimental change of ownership occupancy from white to colored. Prior to the World War, and as early as 1910, this area had only a scattering of colored occupancy in the northwest corner. At that time and up until 1920 a change of ownership principally to Russian-Jewish occurred. From the period of 1920-30 colored infiltration came very strongly along the thoroughfare of Cedar in the north and Quiney in the south (almost totally colored now). There is a concentration of Hungarians along Buckeye Rd. and of Italians in the extreme easterly part of district. This area contains the southern portion of the very large commercial and shopping district centered at E. 105th and Euclid. Large old mansions located on Cedar and Carnegie have been converted into rooming houses or are being torn down to make way for commercial structures. Business is scattered throughout along Carnegie, Cedar, Quincy, Buckeye and Woodhill Rd. There is also a commercial center at Buckeye and Woodhill Rd. The portion of area lying east of Woodhill Rd. is considerably newer. Development here has been predominantly of two-family structure -- occupancy heavily Italian -- no colored. Area includes Lunn Park section recently purchased for government housing project now underway. This small portion of area has been the scene of violent crime and gangster activity, particularly during prohibition days. The trend for this area (now about 99% built up) is definitely downward since colored infiltration from 4th grade area to the west will continue strongly (very heavy during the past 3 years). There is a conserted effort being made by the better class colored in this section to locate in the 4th grade area along E. 105th north of Wade Park but institutions have agreed not to sell to them.
Wholesale (Food) Employees - Laborers - Small contractors & gardeners This well-known Italian settlement has gained notoriety from the activities of the so-called "Mayfield Road mob" which figured prominently in gangster activities during prohibition and is said to be still active. Residents here are primarily engaged in the wholesale products work (fresh fruit and vegetables) which is concentrated in the 4th grade downtown area - D18. The native characteristic of these occupants is evident in their heavy population (large families) and lack of property maintenance. This area has some attraction to Italians living in the downtown Woodland Ave. district whose homes have reached the point of being uninhabitable causing them to move to this section. Owners of property in this area do most of their real estate transactions direct with purchaser and, according to informed realtor's opinion, are able to obtain prices in excess of the economic value of their property. No change is looked for in this area during the next few years, except that colleges abutting the west boundary would like to absorb this section as rapidly as their funds permit. This fully built up area has its own churches, schools and settlement houses.
Merchants - small business men - salesmen - white collared
Laborers-factory workers This small area lying in the southwestern corner of East Cleveland abutting Lake View Cemetery, Goff-Kirby Coal Yard and railroad is the least desirable residential section of this community. This section was laid out about 45 years ago and lots average about 35 ft. frontage. The present occupants have utilized original large single family structures as multiple unit housing and population density in this section is very heavy. The informed realtor's opinion is that no mortgage funds have been available, even on limited terms, for the past 15 years in this area. Occupants are of the lowest income bracket, and relief rolls have been exceptionally heavy here.
Factory - Railroad Shop Workers - Craftsmen - Cement & stone workers This fairly old area was laid out about 50 years ago as part of the Village of Collinwood into small lots averaging 30 ft. x 100 ft., although there are a few above and beneath this bracket. The ratio of singles and two-family homes varies on either side of St. Clair Ave., the main artery through this section. This ratio, north of St. Clair is 70% singles and 30% two-family and south of St. Clair is 60% singles and 40% two-family. Homes north of St. Clair range in age up to 45 years, the oldest of which were originally built without foundations and utilities and have since been remodeled. Properties south of St. Clair are considerably newer and range up to 30 yrs. with two families somewhat newer. Racial occupancy in this primarily industrial neighborhood also varies being almost solidly Italian south of St. Clair and East of Ivanhoe R. and heavily Slav north of St. Clair. Area suffered heavily during the depression, due to its predominancy of factory workers, and foreclosures were heavy. However, with the upturn in business during 1935-36 institutional sales on small down payment basis have been satisfactory. Property values in area have not recovered sharply because of the limited income of prospective purchasers who, through broken employment in such nearby industries as Fisher Body (abutting west boundary), New York Central Railroad Shop, Briggs and Apox Mfg. companies and various other industries, has not permitted the accumulation of more than a small down payment which prevents real estate transaction other than by institutions in liquidation. Example: Many of the 600 employees recently recalled to the Collinwoord Railroad shops, from a lay-off since July lived in this section. This fully built up industrial section will remain much the same for the next few years because of its advantageous location to nearby industries and transportation and occupancy desirability for the low income group. A slow infiltration of Italian may occur, although the area has had little shifting of population inside its boundaries.
Laborers - factory workers - some white collared This 4th grade area (entire south boundary) abutting industrial and railroad property) was laid out 35-40 yrs. ago and developed with cheap single homes mixed with a few converted two-family structures ranging from 1-1 1/2 to 2 sty. dwellings. Occupancy here was always of the working class and heavily populated by foreign. Within the past few years, a slow infiltration of colored has occurred who now live, principally, on Thames and Darwin in the western part of this section. The long easterly projection of this area is a strip of properties abutting the main thoroughfare Waterloo Rd. running from E. 152nd to E. 185th. Properties in this long strip either adjoin or abut many light industrial or semi-commercial properties. Traffic is very heavy along this thoroughfare (Waterloo). Informed realtor's opinion is that lending institutions will not make loans in this section or, if at all, only primarily in that part of area west of E. 140th which contains the better properties and more desirable occupants. Future for this 75% built up area will be slowly down and present slow rate of colored infiltration is not expected to materially increase.
Factory workers - laborers This foreign section was developed about 25 yrs. ago with 1 to 1 1/2 sty. frame singles on 40' lots and almost wholly occupies by Yugo-Slavs who have kept gardens, chickens and some livestock (horses and cows) even today. This area includes a Slovenian Nat'l Home and has its own parish (St. Christine's) and school on E. 222nd. The majority of the central part of this area is undeveloped which accounts for the ratio of 40% built up. Community has remained stable with little or no shift in population and should continue to remain the same for the next several years. Stores are located on E. 200th and E. 222nd and on Miller Ave.; transportation via St. Clair (Cleveland Rwy. - 20 min. service) and via E. 200th (Euclid city bus - 1/2 hr. service) are advantageous to this workingman's neighborhood. Two colored families are located on E. 209th (moved here recently). However no continued movement of colored into this section is expected because of the antagonistic feeling of Yugo-Slav residents for these people. Employment is within walking distance to South (Chase Brass Co. & Addressograph - Multigraph Co.)
Laborers - factory workers This cheap neighborhood was laid out about 25 yrs. ago into lots ranging 25-40' frontage; developed without deed restrictions, and now built up about 50% with properties lacking uniformity, containing a mixture of small 1 sty. homes, 1 1/2 sty. semi-bungalows, 2 sty. box-type frame, semi-commercial structures and a few large two-families. Developers of this section, Chas. M. Mix and Moses Helper catered primarily to foreign and area has become largely an Italian section mixed with a few Yugo-Slav. families and about 3 colored families. A few properties in area are fairly well kept and range in value from $5500-6000 but they are the exception and constitute over-developments in this neighborhood. This area has a fairly good rental demand because it is the second cheapest neighborhood in Euclid and its proximity to transportation on E. 200th (western boundary) plus the nearness of the desirable Lake Shore Blvd. district has held its popularity for the low income class. Because of its undesirabillity and lack of conformity to other Euclid neighborhood, the abutting territory to the north, west and south remains entirely undeveloped; also Wilmore and Morris in this area are largely undeveloped. Schools, stores and churches are within convenient walking distance. Within the last 10 yrs. a gradual shifting of population in this section has been occurring constituted by the clow moving-out of Italian families who lost their homes and replacement by American families of foreign descent. However, the general character of neighborhood with its small gardens, chicken coops and limited livestock (goats and cows) only strengthens the establishment of this neighborhood as a 4th grade area. (Small extreme southwestern projection includes 3 colored families on Merideth Ave.
Laborers- factory workers- railroaders  This area is comprised of a long narrow strip which is located along the C.C.C. & St. L. RR (running in a northeasterly direction) and extends all the way from Firsey St., south, to W. 37th, north. The area is 80% built up; 75% of the streets are paved (mostly in the northern and central sections); fairly good transportation, school and shopping facilities. That section of area lying between West Blvd. north to W. 73rd is an old German community; homes here are in fair to good condition and the home ownership ratio approximates 80%. This is by far the best part of the area. The section from W. 73rd north is a Hungarian settlement; the homes in this section range all the way from 25-60 yrs. and are in fair condition. That section of area lying south of West Blvd. is a colored settlement, solidly occupied in that part situated between Jasper and W. 120th. The southern portion lying south of Brookfield is only sparsely built up and utilities are available only in a limited way. It is only fair to assume that this area will widen and affect the adjacent properties in the abutting 3rd grade area. The foreign-born people continue to come into this section at a slow but steady pace as the better native American people emigrate in about the same ratio. Some Negroes area also trickling into the southern part of area. Proximity to industry, railroad yards and Public Square will, undoubtedly, uphold the area's present level for a few years at least.
Factory workers and laborers This small area, located in the southeastern section of Lakewood, Ohio, and hemmed in by Madison Park on the northwest and by industry and industrial sites on the southern and eastern boundaries, comprises the earlies foreign (Slavish-Polish) settlement here. It was settled, principally, by workers employed by the National Carbon Co. (located immediately east of area's boundary) who wanted to be conveniently located to their employment. Homes in area average 40-50 yrs.; most of these have been large single dwellings at one time but have since been converted into 2-3 family units. There are several much older homes, a few of which are ripe for demolition. On the other hand, there is still some evidence of good home maintenance. However, as a whole, the area is rapidly on the down grade. About 2 to 3 vacant store rooms are found on each street. Several homes are covered with brick-patent sliding, especially on Robin Ave.; Plover Ave. has the poorest streets in this small foreign community. Being close to Cleveland's Public Square, the area has adequate transportation and school facilities. The old residents remain intact, however, the younger generation is moving to better neighborhood farther west. The area will remain static and any noticeable increase in vacancy ratio will take place only as the old settlers pass on.
Laborers- WPA workers- relief clients This area situated in the extreme northeast corner of Cleveland's west side, is one of the city's oldest residential neighborhoods. Originally settled by Germans and Irish, it slowly bowed to Cleveland's expansion and infiltration of other foreign peoples. Roumanians, Hungarians and Italians migrated here about 30 yrs. ago and now comprise the predominating population elements. The Roumanians settles around W. 48th St. district-- the Hungarian and Italian people located between W. 54th and W. 73rd Sts., (largely north of Detroit Ave.) Several old German families are still found along the eastern and central part of the area. The earliest developments of this area was along W. 28th and W. 29th Sts. and here many of the homes are 75 to 80 yrs. old; now fully developed, the area was built up with large 2 sty. single dwellings, many of which were converted into 2-3 family units and rooming houses; (there are a few 1 1/2 sty. homes on each street interspersed with the large converted type). The houses along W. 58th St. and west thereof are in better repair condition--are more modern--have full basements and average 25-30 yrs. Franklin Ave. was once the fashionable district of the west side; two family homes (with round basements) on this street sell for around $3500-$5500 singles and doubles without basements or round cellars from $1800-3500. The main business section of west-side Cleveland is located here; retail business shops run solidly along Lorain, Detroit, Fulton and W. 25th St. There was a small colored settlement in the northeast peak of this area but there homes were razed for the new Main Ave. bridge and also for the Slum Clearance Project. Proximity to Public Square and to industry and because of convenience to transportation, schools, stores, churches, etc. this area will remain attractive to present type of occupants. Transition is to retail stores, light manufacturing establishments and rooming houses.
Factory workers- Laborers- Some Merchants This very old 4th grade area, once the "Bon-Ton" neighborhood on the "west side" lies immediately west of the Cuyahoga River and south of Lorain Ave.; the northern and eastern boundaries extend to a cliff which overlook the Cuyahoga River Valley, Originally settled by Germans and occupied by them up to 35-40 yrs. ago, the area saw an influx of Russian, Slovak and Polish people with a lighter infiltration of Syrians and Greeks in later years. The old residents moved to Lakewood, Rocky River and Bay Village. The area was developed generally with large single homes on 20-40' lots with a few 50' in width on Kenilworth Ave. The industrial and commercial expansion of the "west side" was keenly felt by this area. Now bordered by railroads, factories and steel mills on the north and east boundaries and traversed by 3 main heavy trafficked arteries (W. 25th-Scranton-W. 14th St.) this once fashionable and peaceful residential community rapidly gave ground to its inescapable transition. The fair residential parts or what is left of them lie in the southwest corner (west of W. 25th St.) and along Kenilworth in the north part of area; the poorest sections, along the eastern boundary. The large single homes are generally located on Scranton, W. 14th St., Kenilworth and Starkweather. Briefly, the area consists of: 40% large and small single homes, 40% two-family type (90% of which were converted doubles) and 20% three or more family unit dwellings; the latter type is crowded with two homes on one lot--5 homes on 3 lots, etc. Such streets as Vega, Jennings, Scranton, Walton and Seymour were once the area's most fashionable districts. Retail business-stores run solid on W. 25th and very heavy on Scranton and W. 14th Cleveland's Municipal Hospital (largest city hospital in country) is located on Scranton. One of Cleveland's five Govt. Slum Clearance Projects (500 families) is situated in eastern section of area. The Jennings Rd. Project (WPA) when completed, will relieve the heavy traffic congestion on W. 25th St. The area has a 10% vacancy with many uninhabitable units especially in the north-eastern section; vandalism prevails most strongly here. Rental collections are difficult and WPA and Relief Rolls are very heavy. Despite its undesirability, present type of occupants are not scarce in Cleveland and area's characteristics in the main will remain constant for several years.
Laborers (heavy relief) This small area, virtually all negro neighborhood of shacks and small homes, was the result of a movement of colored laborers to this section about 25 yrs. ago in the hope of securing employment with the Best Foundry and American Stove Co. in Bedford. Realtor's opinion is that this neighborhood was originally formed on a "squatter's rights" basis, later settled by claim and deed conveyance for small sums so that most properties are actually owned. Population of this neighborhood is about 50 colored families and some 7 or 8 Italian families within border. Occupancy is full and, although little rental information is available, it is thought that any tenancy is on some future sales arrangement. The City of Bedford has no interest in, and will not annex, this little community known as "Lincoln Heights" for its relief rolls are heavy and area is unpaved and lacks all utility facilities except electricity in some parts. It was also stated that most residents in this neighborhood are employed in Cleveland and not in Bedford. Because of its cheapness (even to colored) and distance from Cleveland (employment source) it is not believed this colored community will expand and probably will decrease within the next few years with the rise in number of uninhabitable units.
Laborers - factory workers This area is flat; unwooded - was developed about 35-40 years ago and colored infiltration came within a year after the first few homes were built. The streets are unpaved but all utilities are in. The section is sprinkled with shacks and the whole neighborhood presents a more or less shoddy appearance. The neighborhood, however, is law abiding and gives no trouble to the law enforcement bureau. About two years ago strong effort began to decrease the colored occupancy of this area and has resulted in the moving of 23 families (only 50 remaining) some of whom were moved at the city's expense. In each case the removal of a colored family caused the occupancy of a white family in this neighborhood. There is also a tendency towards improvement in the physical appearance of the community during this same period. Longwood is entirely owned by white -- Sterling has not been opened.
Laborers - factory workers This area is the least desirable neighborhood in Garfield Heights. Immediate proximity to negro settlement abutting north boundary -- absence of transportation -- lack of sewers -- unpaved streets and general isolation all have taken their toll. This community was developed about 20-25 years ago and then stopped with the influx of negroes into abutting area. At present, property can be sold only at sacrifice and mortgage money is not available which indicates that potentially this neighborhood will eventually be taken over by negroes with improvement in their financial condition. Approximately 30 homes are located in this area; developed about 40%; no further development is anticipated for white ownership.