Middle class, junior executive, skilled mechanics All business concentrated in one section. Low green. Restricted - very high class residential - exceptionally good schools - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection.
Professional & Executives All business centered in one section. Medium Green. Highly restricted-very high class residential - exceptionally good schools - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection
Professional & Executives Wooded section -- all business centered outside area. Medium Green. Highly restricted - very high class residential - Exceptionally good schools - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good -- good fire and police protection.
Professional & executives Financing done primarily through insurance companies. High green. Wooded section of acre tracts - Oakwood schools - restricted - very high class residential - parks - playgrounds - homogeneous as to development and character of property - transportation good - good fire and police protection.
Junior executive & professional Mortgage financing by insurance companies and locally. Medium Green. Highly restricted - good schools - good transportation - wooded section.
Professionals & Executives Best green Large estates - best section around Dayton
Executives & professional The most exclusive residential section in Dayton (not including Oakwood) High Green. Highly restricted - partly wooded - high class residential good schools - playground - library - good transportation - city fire and police protection.
high type executive construction of new homes somewhat deterred by reason of high cost of materials. Rents remained constant. high restrictions; new development; best residential location lack of transportation
Merchants, Type Professional, Manufacturers Paving assessments were high because of unnecessary expense of layout. In some cases the amount of special assessments exceed the price of the lot. Attractive planning - adjacent Country Club - best school in city. Transportation (every 30 minutes) by bus. No stores convenient, no churches nearby.
Executives, business and professional men. Dick, Marcia, and Emerson are best streets. Area as a whole one of the new subdivisions - of uniform construction with much new building activity recently New school in area -- adequate transportation -- all city conveniences -- close to community business center None, except Belt Line Railroad track on west.
Capitalists, business and professional men. This is an area occupied exclusively by wealthier citizens and those with the higher incomes, containing beautiful homes in well kept grounds. Proximity to schools, churches, and business center not a consideration as area is only about 10 minutes, by automobile, from center of city. Northeastern side of area stops on hill top and "C" area joining is at foot of the hill, one of reasons for jump in grade. Not far distant to principal business section. Good area of large, beautiful homes of wealthier citizens. Has all city conveniences. No transportation, but type of occupants do not consider this a detrimental influence
business, executive and professional One of the most desirable spots in city for mortgage loans Good transportation-bus-park to north in Blue area, restricted. School 3 blocks away. Churches 6 blocks Cath. school bus. Wonderful view all directions. Above all possible floods. No sidewalks on Noel Drive
Executives and Professionals Pride of ownership is highly evident. Is second best residential section in city. Will very likely improve with years. Highly restricted; streets; not far from schools; well developed. No sidewalks; away from shopping district.
Executives and Professional. The only large estates in Portsmouth are located in this area. Elite community. Highly restricted; streets; near schools and churches.
Executives and professional. Pride of ownership is highly evident. Free from industry encroachments. About the best "A" section in city. Highly restricted; good streets - transportation. Close to schools.
Executives; professional & skilled mechanics This section was platted first in 1914; it remained dormant until 1928 due to having been developed by outside interests. Now being promoted by responsible realtors. Most active area for new construction in Springfield. Some 30 new homes erected here last year. Sales activity is very good. Good transportation; well elevated; restricted neighborhood
Junior executives This section was developed prior to 1929. Former promoter now in receivership. Possibility of B & L Company will take over area and property will be placed with reliable ownership. Favorably located between A-1 and industrial districts. Property values will very likely increase in the near future. All improvements in and paid for. Proximity of good residential district. Close to schools. RR to the N.E.
business and professional Desirable class "A" area. Laid out by attorneys and others not acquainted with development and underfinanced. Resulting in Receivership. Now owned by B & Loan Association. Will probably continue to be slow until active promotion takes place. Will probably show increase in values in the future. West end has. Adjoining beautiful park. Only "A" section in western part of city. Near schools. rock very near surface
business & professional well laid out; promoted soundly; uniform buildings; Pride of ownership highly evident; free from detrimental influences, will remain good. Good improvements; well restricted; good transportation close to schools.
Junior Executives and skilled laborers Adjoining the best old district of the city which is still highly desirable.
Professional and Business Well laid out and improved; quickly developed; well promoted; it is the only "A" district in the South end of town. Free from encroachment. good streets; excellent schools; well restricted. Free from encroachments.
Executives This is the finest and most expensive residential district. Very beautiful estates. The "cream" of better residential districts. Located in village of Ottawa Hills, west of Toledo city limits. Trees, paved streets, all conveniences, scenic; high restrictions.
White collared and skilled mechanics A somewhat older but very fine, high type neighborhood. Pride of ownership is highly evident. Area was well planned and homes soundly constructed. Uniform and stable population. Within short distance to University of Toledo. Abutment to cemetery and lower grade area should not jeopardize desirability for several years. Transportation; good streets; convenient to churches, schools, University and markets. Abutts cemetery on the west and Yellow area (C-18) on east and south sides.
Executives and businessmen Well laid out restricted residential district. Trend is upward. About 80 - 90 feet higher than down-town district. Cool and pleasant during summer months. Transportation, near school and churches.
Executives & business men Located in Wood County. One of the older very high class exclusive residential community. Never fully developed. Now surrounded on two sides by laboring class district. Good streets, transportation, lies on river banks. Approach through Rossford, Ohio, a much lower cost area. Bordered by cheaper area.
Professional and executives The highest class residential district. Well restricted Pride of ownership is highly evident. Trend is upward. West of city limits. Close to schools, paved streets, high class residential. Fully restricted and zoned Class "A".
Executives, professional and business The second best residential neighborhood. Very fine and clean lots well landscaped. Trend is upward. Streets. All utilities. Very clean, high grade neighborhood.
Tradesmen and Professional It is the best class medium priced residential district. Well restricted. Trend is upward. Occupied by the younger element of professional and high salaried men. Good streets, clean neighborhood, zoned Class "A" residential. Near schools and churches.
Business and high salaried workers It is a good popular priced location. Clean neighborhood. Restrictions are somewhat lower than in Areas A-1 and 4. Should continue to show upward trend. Good streets, transportation. Near schools and churches.
Tradesmen, professional and junior executives Area lies north Jermain and Ottawa public parks. Ottawa park is beautifully wooded. Very high class residential section. Within walking distance to the new University of Toledo. Construction is sound and the area was well planned. Good streets, clean neighborhood. Zoned Class "A" residential, Church, school, transportation and trading center conveniently available. Accessible to recreation and amusement.
Businessmen and high salaried workers Area lies south of Jermain Park. Popular priced location. Restricted somewhat less than areas A1 to 4, but very clean and pride of ownership is highly evident. Good, sound construction. Within short distance to beautiful Ottawa Park and new University of Toledo. Good streets; near churches, schools and business center. Transportation. Accessible to recreation and amusement.
White collared and skilled mechanics Some duplexes along Greenway and Kensington Drive. Clean neighborhood. Upward trend. Good streets, near churches and schools, adjoins beautiful. Borders on cemetery and railroad track.
Executives and professional Restricted to single residences. A little older but a very fine and high type neighborhood. Trend is upward. A few very expensive homes. Good streets, trees, near schools and churches, good transportation. Adjoins park.
Executives, professional and merchants Two synagogues located in neighborhood. Infiltration of high Jewish population. Homes much more desirable and newer in section north of county line. This section is almost free from the undesirable influences mentioned in 1-c. Availability of mortgage funds is somewhat limited by reason of policy of local bankers and not because of any physical drawback of this area. Expensive homes have seen slow recovery in Youngstown, and bankers are hesitant in loaning the maximum amount, claiming that disposal of large homes and estates is a difficult problem. This is the best residential area in the north end of the city. Property, if acquired, should be sold but not sacrificed. Restricted and zoned "A" residential. Convenient to schools and churches.  Good streets; transportation. Adjoins public park and public golf course - recreation and amusement. Some very expensive homes located in the north-end of area. Adjoins Jewish Cemetery and city hospital on north-west corner. Is in direct path to smoke and gases from large stool mills.
Executives, professional and business men Area lies in Boardman Village. This is by far the most desirable Green area on the map. Strong social drawing. People pride themselves in living in "Forest Glenn." Strong desirability of this area has favorably affected the entire south-end community. The highest type doctors and surgeons in Youngstown reside in this area. Located in line with future growth of Youngstown. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value rather than sold. Most highly restricted area. Good winding streets; transportation. Convenient to schools and churches. Scenic features. Mill Creek Park (on West side) offers splendid recreation facilities and amusement. Homogeneous population. Fastest growing community by far. Practically free from all undesirable influence. Section along Howard Street slightly affected by dirt and noise from railroad running along Southern Boulevard.
Professional and businessmen Area lies in Boardman Village. A desirable neighborhood build up mostly by Brockway-Williamson-Knott Real Estate Company. Clean and free from dangerous gases from the steel mills. Heavy rain during summer season have tendency to cause damp collars due to perfect flatness of terrain. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value rather than sold. Highly restricted area. Good streets and transportations. Convenient to schools and churches. Located in line with future growth of Youngstown. Zoned "A" residential. Practically free from detrimental influences except that high tower of broadcasting station (W.K.B.N.) is located here. This causes annoyance in radio reception.
Bankers, and high executives area consists of unusually fine and high class properties yet within reasonable distance to center of city. It enjoys and enviable social reputation. Extends along one of the most beautiful sections of Mill Creek Park. Homes range from $10,000--$50,000 values. Lots are beautifully landscaped and the winding streets are fringed with spruce and maple trees. Wealthiest people in Youngstown reside here. Very highly restricted. Fine winding streets. Transportation; convenient to schools, churches, and business center. Accessible to recreation and amusement. Homogeneous population. Scenic features. Generally free from all adverse influences except that values of homes lying in extreme north end of area are somewhat affected due to proximity to cheaper neighborhoods.
Merchants and professional mechanics A very clean and highly desirable area because of the excellent (first class) public and high school and lower taxation. Furthermore, it is free from all smoke and dirt. In path of future growth of Youngstown. Growing very rapidly. Some 40 new residences under construction. Trend is decidedly upwards. Homes are well maintained and pride of ownership is highly evident throughout area. One of the newer residential areas which should show good demand from many years to come. Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value. Restricted; good streets and transportation. In direct path to growth of city. Convenient to schools and churches. A fine, quiet, and clean residential area.
Professional and business men This is the best class "A" residential in Canton; 90% homeowners; many new homes under construction. Pride of ownership is highly evident; free from smoke, dirt and industry encroachment. Good roads; highly restricted.
Professional men and junior executives This is a relatively new development. All improvements are in; easily accessible; free from smoke and encroachment by industry. Paved streets; highly restricted; near school; good transportation. Some low land adjacent to area on the north.
Executives and professional This excellent, highly restricted area is built around Silver Lake, considered the most beautiful lake in Summit County. Although platted in 1917, the area was not really developed until about 1927 after removal of a run-down amusement park located the shore of the lake. Now, this district is 25% built up, the fine winding streets are lined with maple trees, and the whole area is artistically landscaped. Pride of ownership is naturally very evident and trend of neighborhood is definitely upward. The present price range averages from $8000-$20,000, although several properties are considerably above the highest figure quoted. School facilities and transportation are good. Property, if acquired, should be held for a fair market value.
Office executives and professional The Firestone Tire & Rubber Company through its Land Company, laid out this area as an entire community for its junior executives and office workers in 1918. The land for the churches and large grade school was donated by Harvey S. Firestone Sr. The city’s finest and second newest high school named Garfield (enrollment 2700) is located in this area on a spacious landscaped city block plot which includes its football stadium. The grade school is also on a plot this size and fronts on a large park donated by Firestone for the community’s recreation (tennis and baseball). This area also contains parochial schools (corner Brown and Wilbeth Street). The commercial area is concentrated on Aster Avenue (by restriction – within two blocks) facing the rear of the Firestone Park grade school. The finest, newest homes (some $30,000) are located on Firestone Boulevard where it branches to border the recreation park. This clean, quiet neighborhood is 80% built up on lots averaging 50-ft frontage. The streets are all paved (except east of Brown Street) and lighted by underground system. Restrictions are uniform except in southwest border (highest on Firestone Boulevard). The cheap homes in southwest were built prior to development. The section north of Brown Street was developed by the Herberich-Hall-Harter Company in 1926-1929. Transportation is good and vehicular traffic is heavy on Brown St., Aster Avenue, Firestone Boulevard and Wilbeth Road. Property, if acquired, should command a fair value.
Professional and business men This is the best residential area in Barberton, surrounds the attractive Tuscora (recreational) Park, abutts the Anna Dean Golf Course, and lies on an elevation overlooking the balance of the city. This area was laid out about 1919 and is now about 60% built up; 50% of streets paved (balance well graded and graveled) cemented sidewalks. School facilities are very good and transportation is fair. Traffic on Tuscarawas Avenue is fairly heavy. The trend for this section is slightly upward. Property, if acquired, should be held for a fair value.
executives, high class office workers and mechanics This area, well landscaped by nature, adjoins two beautiful public parks, and by virtue of its existing price range from $5000 to $10,000, enjoys a relatively heavy occupancy demand (20 homes in $8500 class built here last year). Now built up 70%, this section was originally platted between 1916-1920. The average lot frontage is 55 feet and the whole district is clean and free from detrimental influences. Only a few outlying streets remain unpaved and special assessments on the balance are practically all paid by now. Transportation is excellent and area is convenient to schools, churches, and stores. Sales activity in district has been good and at fair price. Property, if acquired, should be held for its just value. (Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Broad Street.)
Executives and professional This is the finest, newest residential section in the city. Originally developed in 1920 as an ultra-exclusive district, separate from Akron, this area was named the Village of Fairlawn. However, the severity of the 1930 decline in home construction in this rapidly developed area, due to its very exclusiveness and unwarranted size, caused the promoters to petition for annexation. This was approved by the City of Akron in 1932. The main part, containing the most beautiful and expensive homes ( a few cost as high at $70,000) lies south of the Akron-Medina Road on an artistically landscaped, heavily wooded plateau. (Since plateau rises approximately 100 feet above the A.C. Y. railroad at south end, there is little if any influence by this usual detriment.) The lots average 70 foot frontage and are traversed by excellent winding streets (70% in area paved). The area is now built up 35% -- formerly, the minimum improvement restriction was $15,000 but now has been reduced to $12,500. Six homes from $14,000 up were built in area last year. Due to the city's weak financial condition, installation of utilities has been slow and has delayed development of area. However, all utilities now have been installed except gas and electricity in 50% of area (mostly undeveloped). Schools, churches, and stores are convenient; transportation is only fair, but not important to this type of resident. North part surrounds the excellent Fairlawn Golf Course.
Professional, business, and merchants This area was developed in 1920 as an attractive location for the medium class buyer who desired to live in this part of the city but could not afford to purchase homes in the adjoining highly restricted areas. The following progress has been made since the area was laid out in 50 foot lots; built up 40%; streets paved 30% (balance well graded and cindered, with cemented sidewalks); utilities 100% installed. Schools, stores and churches are conveniently near (commercial section centrally located on W. Market Street). Transportation is good in part east of Hawkins Avenue, but only fair in balance of area. Although minimum improvement restriction is $4500, a few homes in the $20,000 class are located in area principally along W. Market Street (north side). Twelve homes in $6500 class were constructed along Harcourt Drive during year. The Hardesty Park, located in southeastern part, was formerly reserved but is now being filled and graded by W.P.A. Smoke, dirt, and noise from traversing A.C.&Y. railroad only partially affects area (abutting properties) since but two trains run daily. General outlook for district is good and property, if acquired, should be held for fair price.
Professional and executives This very desirable residential area, surrounding the exclusive Portage Country Club (Golf and Tennis) and bordering the beautiful Metropolitan Park System, was developed between 1922-1929 as a highly restricted district averaging 65-70 foot lot frontage (except northwest corner part containing smaller lots and cheaper homes). Many large estates abutt or are located in this area (Firestone Seiberling, etc). No attempt was made to evaluate or include these luxurious homes in the above price brackets. The topography of the area is level to rolling and excellent wooded (some – virgin), affording scenic view. Only slight disturbance is caused by the traversing A.C.&Y. Railroad since but two trains pass each day and the roadbed lied considerably lower than surrounding territory. At present the area is built up 25 per cent; homes average 50-ft set back from the well-paved streets; boulevard lighting throughout; good transportation; excellent schools (King Grade School – finest in city); store center is rather distant but this is not important to type of resident. The cheaper area lying off Garman Road immediately north of the Country Club will improve and tend to conform with standard of area when more fully developed. Six homes were built in the district last year.
Business, office men, and teachers The plateau, on which this restricted area was developed in 1925-1930, overlooks a deep scenic gorge carved by the Cuyahoga River through solid rock. The High Level Bridge across this ravine is the area’s (and abutting districts) only outlet to the north. The main traversing arteries (Main Street & N. Howard) begin at this bridge. This neighborhood is approximately 75 per cent built up; high price bracket homes are principally located on N. Howard Street, lots averaging 55-60 foot frontage; cheaper homes on Main Street (80 foot road-bed) are detrimentally affected by heavy vehicular traffic although they are well set back on lots averaging 45-50 foot frontage. Stores, schools and churches are fairly convenient and transportation is good. However, area appears to have reached its peak, and trend will be static to slowly downward. Property, if acquired, should be sold for fair value.
Executives, merchants and office workers Prior to the development of the Portage Path District (abutting on north) and annexation of Fairlawn Heights (Area A-3), this was the finest and most desirable new residential section in Akron. Development on this slightly rolling area began in 1920 and thorough planning resulted in lots averaging 50-ft frontage, boulevard lighting, and good paved streets. The highly restricted improvements are located north of Delia Avenue. Homes gradually lower in prices from Stadelman Avenue to the south. The area is built up 65 per cent and convenient to stores, schools, and churches. Eight new homes were constructed last year. Pride of ownership is very evident and the present desirability of this district as a homesite should maintain its high rating for the next 10-20 years. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Market Street (EW) and fairly heavy on Delia Avenue (EW) and Hawkins Avenue (NS). Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Tradesmen, mechanics, and office workers Development in this clean medium-priced section of 45-foot front lots began principally in 1922, although northern-most part (containing several 2-family homes, 3 per cent, on Madison and Whittier) and eastern “hook” projection (containing finest homes abutting Perkins Park) were developed earlier. Pride of ownership is evident; lots are well landscaped; 75% of streets are paved and balance (western part) hard surface. Ten homes were built in area last year. Several apartments (high rent) and small retail enterprises are located on Copley Road (main traversing artery), principally between Wildwood – Mercer Avenues and Roslyn Avenue – Frederick Boulevard. Presence of store structures is considered a shopping convenience by residents; and apartments due to high type occupants, do not appear to detrimentally affect surrounding home values. The area is now 60% built up and should maintain its present standard. Property, if acquired, should command a fair value.
junior executives and office workers This quiet, wooded area lies on the highest part of Goodyear Heights. Although a portion of the large development of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, most homes here were privately constructed and the neighborhood is now 70% built up on lots averaging 50-ft frontage. One of the city’s Metropolitan Parks abutts this area’s northeast boundary. Due to the surrounding influence of slightly cheaper homes and the lessening desirability of the entire east side of city in the eyes of high type occupants, this area has reached its peak, but will remain more desirable than the surrounding “Blue” territory, since only age will affect its superiority. Stores, schools, and churches are convenient; all streets paved; boulevard lighting throughout; good transportation. Vehicular traffic is heaviest on Newton Street (EW). Property, if acquired, should be held for fair value.
Business men and professional This attractive partly wooded first grade residential section is located on the northwestern boundary of Cuyahoga County fronting on Lake Erie. Particular asset of this area, lying on both sides of adjoining parks, is the drawing power of its desirable beach facilities (lake frontage on the western half of the County is largely without beach facilities being situated on generally abrupt elevation overlooking the lake in the cities of Rocky River and Lakewood). This clean neighborhood was platted in 1925 and is now 25% built up with uniform single residences that reflect strong pride of ownership. All streets are concrete with complete installation of utilities. Fifteen new homes were constructed here during the past 12 months. Good restrictions will hold this area's attractiveness to professional and business men, but future growth will be fairly slow due to the outlying location and weak transportation service (hourly bus). Note: electrified railroad shown on map has been discontinued, roadbed and tracks removed.
Executives - Professional - Business men This area is known as the Clifton Park Addition; that portion of the area lying east of Webb Rd. was laid out over 30 years ago; a very beautiful, well wooded area, facing Lake Erie and abutting Rocky River on the west. Fino winding streets; very wide lots. Fairly level topography. Away from heavy vehicular traffic and free from detrimental influences; a beautiful area with a park-like appearance; homes set 75 ft. from road. Most exclusive residential section in Lakewood; excellent beach facilities - bath house - life guards. The larger and more expensive homes (including some estates) are located along Edgewater, Forest Cliff, Erie Cliff, Maple Cliff and Kenneth Drive facing the lake. That portion lying west of Webb Rd. is newer and price range here is from $15,000 to $25,000; five new homes were built in this section during the past 12 months. One hundred percent high type residential and will remain so for several years to come. The area is accorded a good first grade rating.
Professional, Business men This nicely wooded section, facing Lake Erie and situated immediately west of Lakewood Park was platted 22 years ago. It is now 80% built up; good streets and transportation; convenient to schools, churches and shopping centers and within reasonably short distance to the Cleveland Public Square. Restrictions are by deed and zoning ordinance; lots 40 x 120 ft. with a few 45's; all single homes in the price range $8000-$10,000 with an average age of 10-12 yrs., with the exception of the homes on Summit Ave. which are much older. Properties represent a good type of development considering size of lots; a clean and well kept community with no vacancies and a very high owner-occupancy ratio; highly desirable to the professional and business men of average means. A fairly well settled community and free from foreign infiltration. Prices will remain firm for many years. This area's very favorable future is based on the fact that new construction has been more expensive than existing homes and area is one of the few high grade sections in Lakewood with room for future development.
Executive - Professional - Retired capitalists Situated in the northeastern part of Lakewood, Ohio. This section is in the highest requirement of the Lakewood zoning district and is being carefully administered; average lot front 60-80 feet; approximately 90% built up; distinct uniformity of homes; price range $15,000-25,000; a few estates, such as the Crider, Kuntz and Hutchinson's (located between Cove and Nicholson on Edgewater Drive), range around $65,000. New construction has been in line with existing type of homes; six new homes along Estill Drive; four on south side of Edgewater Drive. Newer homes along Parkside, Wilbort, Estill and Edgewater Drive west of Parkside. Area faces Lake Erie; beach facilities are limited due to cliff - (accessible by stairway). Fine streets - shade trees - very good transportation and utilities; fairly convenient to schools, churches and community stores. High type residents - homes and land surroundings very well kept; free from any detrimental influences. Probability of subdivision of some of the large estates (between Cove and Nicholson) should "freshen" real estate activity in the entire area. No decline in prices since 1937 - if anything, prices have "stiffened" a little. Area should continue to maintain its present high standard for several years. A high grade first class area.
Professional and Business men This small first grade residential area is located in the eastern end of Lakewood just south of Lake Ave. Platted 15-18 years ago it is now 80% built up; all utilities in, very convenient to schools, churches and shopping centers and within short distance of Cleveland Public Square; restricted to one-family dwellings by deed and zoning ordinance, with the exception of Hathaway Ave. where some two-family homes have been constructed. The larger and older homes are along Manor Park (west border of area); lots 50 x 250 ft.; homes are set well back from street. Area will retain its present level of desirability for the next 5-10 years at least.
Salaried employees - Small business men - Some professional This fast growing new residential area was taken up about three years ago and accelerated to the point where there are now 12 to 15 contractors actively engaged in constructing homes for the speculative market. At present almost 30 homes are under construction. Sales in this area have been satisfactory and values of older homes previously built here, principally along Dellbank, Brookside and Plainfield, have risen considerably in value. About 8 to 10 two-family homes are located in area. Lots range from 40-60 ft. frontage and average 120-150 ft. depth. Land value averages from $20 per front foot on unpaved streets to $30 per front foot on paved streets. Only 4 streets are unpaved in this area - W. 58th, W. 59th, W. 60th and W. 62nd (one being paved now). All utilities are available; area's outlet to downtown section is along W. 73rd (bus line) and Brookside Blvd. through abutting second grade area to Fulton Rd. Northern portion of area is rolling and scenic - contains larger plots and more expensive homes of brick construction, a few ranging as high in value as $10,000-$15,000. Development, although rapid, appears to be proceeding no faster than demand and future of area appears very favorable.
Business men - Professional - White-collared This level to gently rolling area, located along Schaaf Road east of Broadview Ave. and known as South Hills Development, was platted in 1920-22. Lots here are 50' front with a few 40' lots in northwest corner; all utilities in, including street paving; street car transportation on Broadview and close to schools, churches and stores. The area is 65% developed with 1 1/2 and 2 1/2-story single residences (not over 12 two-family dwellings in entire area) ranging in price all the way from $5500 to $20,000. The wide price-spread is accounted for in that the area grew "sectionally". The finer and most expensive homes ($15,000-20,000) are located along South Hills Blvd., while the older and cheapest properties are found along Alvin and Maynard Aves. south of Schaaf Rd. and on Saratoga, Cypress and Hillcrest Aves. in the northwest corner of area. New development (within past 2 years) was on W. 15th St. along the easterly boundary of area. Some 25-30 homes were erected in this section during the past 12 months. Prices are holding strong with an upward tendency in the lower price bracket homes. The area, although somewhat isolated from other first grade areas in Cleveland, seems to have a long life ahead. The weaker spots referred to herein will be amply supported by the highly desirable South Hills Blvd. section. New occupants are of high type.
White-collared - Merchants - Professional - Executives This is the "best" residential section in Parma. Area consists of four allotments and generally referred to as the Eureka Park Section. Terrain, level to slightly rolling; (surrounded by more hilly land). Bordered on the west by Metropolitan Park System. The area is 40% built up; 80-90% streets paved; no street lights; (street lamps in Parma located only along main thoroughfares); average lot 80 ft. x 150 ft.; fine winding roads; well wooded area; beautiful spring-fed lake located in northeast part; landscaping and shrubbery. Good restrictions; (former restrictions minimum $15,000).. The more expensive homes ($15,000-$25,000) were built 10-12 years ago; newer homes in bracket $7500-9500. Good activity on W. Moreland, Evergreen Drive and Oakdale. Trend is noticeably upward. The respread of heavy assessments (city only) in 1937 over a thirty year period stimulated real estate activity. Heavy vehicular traffic on Snow Road; area is dependent upon bus service for transportation. Free from the common detrimental influences.
Office executives - White-collared This area is known as Eureka Park Subdivision #4; a small area with fine winding streets; average lot front 60 ft.; surrounded by trees and westerly border of area connects with Metropolitan Park; all utilities installed. No vacancies; no two-family or apartments; no rentals; 2 new homes on Halycon in line with present type. Twelve "Permanesque" (i.e. cellarless houses) built on Notabene Drive in 1924-1925 by Dan Loftus; bus transportation on Pearl Rd. (along easterly border of area); free from all detrimental influences with the exception of heavy vehicular traffic on Pearl Rd.; convenient to schools and neighborhood stores. A fine clean neighborhood where pride of ownership is highly evident. Market activity, quiet since depression - now much better; favorable future trend. The area is given a good first grade rating.
Business men - Junior executive - White-collared This area, known as H. A. Stahl's Ridgewood #1 Allotment, was laid out 19 years ago. 90% streets paved; all utilities installed; no street lights; (street lamps in Parma are located only along main thoroughfares); bus transportation; 50 ft. thoroughfares; average lot front 45 ft.; (recently allotted 100 ft. lots on Roycroft Dr.). Fairly level terrain; fine shade trees; city playground in southeastern section of area; adjoins Ridgewood County Club (semi-private) on the east; two spring-fed lakes located in area; within walking distance to schools and churches. Good restrictions; no apartments or multiple units; free from the common detrimental influences. A fine desirable neighborhood. Would have progressed very rapidly were it not for the "tax situation" peculiar to Parma (taxes respread in 1937). In view of the new construction, better home buying activity and general up-trend, the area is accorded a good first grade classification.
Managers - Merchants - Skilled mechanics - Some professional This small section had its first development beginning with the dedication of streets in 1926 by the Rapid Transit Land Sales Co. later taken over by a Mr. Kleinman and recently actively developed (20 homes within past 12 mos.). Lots in this area are 40-45' wide; streets, arranged in rectangular form, are about 30% developed. Deed and zoning restrictions are rigid (price bracket $7500-$12,500) but lack of school facilities and distance to churches, shopping center and transportation (S. Moreland Blvd. Rapid Transit to the north) have resulted in considerable sales resistance, although half hour bus service may be obtained via Lee Rd. (western boundary). The major part of development to date has occurred close to Lee. Rd. and future of area appears favorable but informed realtor's opinion is that top price bracket will decrease approximately 20% with the advent of additional construction until this will become an $8000-$10,000 neighborhood. Several families, in order to avail themselves of school facilities in Shaker Hts., now pay an additional tax for this purpose. It appears this area will remain first grade for the next several years, but will suffer a slight softening in prices, although desirability, from a residential standpoint, will improve with better transportation.
Executives - Bankers - Professional - Business men This area is located in the northern part of Rocky River and overlooks Lake Erie; the entire section is beautifully wooded and replete with fine shrubbery and landscaping; winding roads; homes are set back approximately 50 feet; all paved streets; all utilities; city and suburban transportation; very good restrictions; public beach owned (undivided interest) by all lot owners; this area is now 70% built up; the east end of the area is older and has been allotted some 35 years; the more expensive homes are situated along the lake front and along West Lake Rd. One or two homes as high as $150,000; the lots are from 50-100 ft. front; the cheaper homes are located along the central strip of the area and this is where most of the new construction is taking place; new construction should continue at the same or more accelerated ratio in view of the location of this area, and because it is free from the common detrimental influences. This area is given a strong first grade rating inasmuch as it will remain a very high type, desirable neighborhood.
Merchants - Professional - Junior Executives This generally level and partly wooded exclusive residential section is the result of an advanced type of 2-family construction based on "concealed architecture" so that the community, as a whole, appears to be developed with large single homes (Van Sweringen Co. construction plan restrictions). With the exception of main thoroughfares, such as: Lomond Blvd. (70'), Scottsdale (86'), Kinsman (60'), and Lee (80'), balance of the streets are 50' wide. Lots range from 40-50' in width and are about 85% improved with soundly constructed single and camouflaged 2-family dwellings. Three streets in area (Lomond, Sherrington, & Scottsdale) are restricted to single homes, balance permit 2-family dwelling construction. Area contains one public school and transportation is via Rapid Road, also at Lynnfield & Kinsman (central-north) and at Kinsman & Center Rds. (northeast). This neighborhood has had very active construction during the past 12 months accounting for exactly 105 constructions, 10 of which are the "concealed architecture" 2-family type. Future for this desirable community, based on activity, demand and occupancy, will be very good for the next several years.
Merchants - Executives - Professional The topography of this desirable section, first developed by the Van Sweringen Co. with dedication of streets between 1914-16, is generally flat but most attractive due to the arrangement of streets and large number of trees, particularly in the northerly portion. Most streets are 50' wide, except S. Moreland Blvd. (170') containing Rapid Transit car line. Lots range from 50-60' in width and, with the exception of some corners, are restricted to single homes; the corner lots developed with duplex dwellings. Area is approximately 85% built up - well maintained and reflects pride of ownership. One public school is located in area; shopping center is located at the intersection of Lee & Kinsman. Area has no detrimental influences and it is believed that rigid restrictions imposed by deed and zoning ordinances will maintain the present standard of area for the next several years.
Merchants - Junior Executives - Professional - Skilled Mechanics This desirable area, rigidly restricted by the Van Sweringen Co., (except E. 128, E. 130 and Northwood) was first developed with the dedication of streets at intervals between 1912-14. Streets are 50' wide, except S. Moreland Blvd. (170'), containing Rapid Transit car line. Area has two public schools, one Non-Sectarian Church, and is convenient to complete shopping center in 2nd grade area abutting west boundary. Lots in area are mostly 60' wide and are practically 90% developed with good single homes. *An exception to this area are the parts of E. 128th, E. 130th & Northwood extending north of Woodland into Shaker Heights. (Small corner of area's NW "hook" projection) as a result of the straightening of Boundary lines with Cleveland. These three small streets, not covered by Van Sweringen Co. restrictions, are 50-50 developed with low-priced singles and 2-families (average age 30 years - price bracket $5500-$8500). Several properties in this area have been acquired through foreclosure - sales have been satisfactory. Properties in the extreme southwest part of the area are somewhat lower priced than average for area. With the exception of E. 128th, E. 130th and Northwood, the balance of area is a good first grade development reflecting strong pride of ownership and will maintain its standard for the next several years.
Executives - Professional - Some Capitalists This exclusive neighborhood covered by rigid deed restrictions of the Van Sweringen Co. had its first development with the dedication of streets between 1911-24 and now is virtually 90% developed with fine homes. Topography of neighborhood is generally level, although the southerly portion is slightly rolling with a downward slope to the south. The winding streets are mostly 60' wide, except Shaker Blvd. - 130' wide (E.W. thoroughfare) containing Rapid Transit car line. Most lots are 100-200', although the southerly part contains many larger lots and the northerly portion many estate parcels. The part of area north of Shaker Blvd. contains most expensive homes ($25,000-$40,000 class -- several estates along North Park $75,000 and up). Properties on side streets, part of area between Woodland & Shaker Blvd., are in the $17,500-$30,000 class. The portion of area south of Woodland contains fine homes in the $20,000-$30,000 bracket with a few parcels $75,000-up (on Parkland Dr.-Woodland Rd.) Considerable portion of this area is devoted to parks (several small lakes) and to the Shaker Heights Country Club. Adequate schools are available (one high school; two grade and Hathaway-Brown - private school for girls). This highly desirable area will continue to maintain its excellent standing due to rigid enforcement of strict deed and zoning restrictions - construction and sale of property subject to approval by Van Sweringen Co. This is one of the outstanding residential areas in the country.
Executive & Professional class This excellent neighborhood is the newest part of exclusive Shaker Heights (streets dedicated 1926-29). Topography of area is fairly level, winding streets (some Blvd. type), with few exceptions, are 60' wide and lots range from 60-130' in width. Area is divided by Shaker Blvd. (600' wide) containing Rapid Transit car line (excavated below Blvd. level in this area). There are two exclusive private schools here (University - Boys; Laurel - Girls) each with an extensive campus. John Carroll University is nearby in first grade area abutting north boundary. Part of area north of Shaker Blvd. is 55% developed with large homes - market value $20,000-$60,000. Development south of Shaker Blvd. (15% built up) is less expensive ($17,000-$30,000) with a few as low as $12,500 along Almar Drive. This portion of area is expanding rapidly and accounts for virtually all of the area's new construction in the past 12 months. (27 homes). Area has no public school facilities (available in areas abutting west boundary). This condition is not considered detrimental by residents who prefer to send children to private schools. Extremely high deed and zoning restrictions (rigidly enforced) will maintain the high standard of this area and do not expire until 1999. All construction, even resale of property in this area must meet with approval of Van Sweringen Co. Future for this neighborhood is favorable.
Professional - Executives - Teachers - Business men This is the newest, fastest growing exclusive residential section on the east side of Cleveland and has gained an approximate 200% in population during the past 6 years; originally laid out about 15 years ago by the Rapid Transit Land Sales Co.; streets and utilities installed 12 years ago then taken over by the Meadowbrook-Scarborough Land Co. (Van Sweringen subsidiary). Rigid deed restrictions were then affected setting the size of foundations to lot frontage as follows: 40' lot - 28' foundation; 45' lot - 33' foundation; 50' lot - 35' foundation (depth of foundation not to exceed width.) Corner lots having 7000 sq. ft. or more of space are zoned for duplex construction but for the most part are undeveloped. The exception of Northwood and Silsby Aves. (N.W. part) from these restrictions caused the formation of a Residents' Committee about 2 years ago which now must pass on all construction plans prior to approval by the Van Sweringen Co. thus placing a second rigid test on new construction. The present active pace of construction dates back to only 1935 but has continued to gain momentum since that time. John Carroll University is located in area, and also a golf course. Proximity of this area to Hathaway-Brown (private school for girls) is a strong selling point. Area has express bus service (22 min. to downtown) but lacks store facilities which are being planned for at the intersection of Warrensville and Fairmount Blvd. (center of south boundary). Most expensive homes ($12,500-$16,500) are located principally east of Warrensville Rd. around the University grounds and also in S.W. part on Edgerton and Claridge. Future for this excellent neighborhood appears very favorable for the next 10-15 years. Five percent vacancy consists only of new constructions not yet occupied by owners or vacant-for-sale.
Executives This exclusive small estates area, abutting the Mayfield Country Club, is the development of the Lyndhurst Park Heights Co., sponsored by C.C. Bolton and Dudley Blossom, started some 15 years ago when rigid restrictions were placed on this area - it was broken into 2-5 acre parcels and carefully sold to a selected group. The extent of this development (at present, 10 homes) will, when completed in this section, total approximately 30 structures and is now progressing at approximately 2-3 homes each year (minimum cost $25,000). One home in area is worth $75,000. The butt-ending of estate parcels on Mayfield Rd. prevents detrimental influence of this thoroughfare on properties. The area's distance to stores, churches and transportation is little detriment in the eyes of this type resident; Hawkins School (private school for boys) lies immediately south of area. Future for this small community is stable and will progress slowly due to the high restrictions and expensiveness of homes. The large estates of C.C. Bolton and Dudley Blossom lie to the south of this area. Part of these estates may be opened for continuation of this area's development.
Professional - Executive - Small Business Owners This very desirable residential area consists of three parts, namely: Heaton-Pennington Subdivision, consisting of Severn, Shannon, Bendemeer and Berkely (north side only) Rds.; the Severance Estate (lying between Severn and Mayfield Rd.; and the Oak Ridge Subdivision (lying north of Mayfield Rd.) The Heaton-Pennington Subdivision was laid out about 15 years ago, development began 12 years ago, and has proceeded steadily since that time. Sales were made principally to Jewish purchasers. Lots average 45-60 ft. frontage and originally sold for $50-$55 per front foot - now bring $25-$30 per foot. This part of area is now built up approximately 30% with harmonious, well restricted home development. New homes, principally, average $12,500 in price. The Severance Estate (lying to the north of the Heaton-Pennington Subdivision) at present has but two parts developed for lot sales (north side of Severn and west side of Crest Rds.). Balance of this area has been platted but not opened for development due to the fact that utility and pavement costs, plus ground value, as a highly restricted residential section, will not bring an equitable price in the present market. Sixty foot lots held at $2450 on Severn Rd. and $1850 on Crest Rd. are not finding ready takers. The Oak Ridge section (lying north of Mayfield Rd.) is an older and more expensive development than balance of this area to the south. Original development of expensive homes ranging in value up to $80,000 have suffered severely on the sales market due to the cheaper home developments surrounding this area. Informed realtor's opinion is that no property in this section will bring more than $30,000 as evidenced by recent sales. Four of the 19 new homes (last 12 mos.) built in area were located in this Oak Ridge Section. Lots average 60' x 150' frontage. New construction, in this 30% built up section, averages about $12,500 indicating that future development and values will stabilize at about this figure. No Jewish occupancy exists in the Oak Ridge section and, from best sources, it appears that future development of the Severance Estate will closely parallel its desirability with the nearby Rockefeller-Forest Hill development and the Oak Ridge section of this area.
Executive - Professional ($7500 up) This approximately 5% built-up area is the south and east portion of the exclusive Rockefeller-Forest Hills Subdivision. Although platted in 1928, home development by Rockefeller interests was in the northwest portion lying in East Cleveland. However, in 1936 five lots along Monticello Blvd. were waived to the ARKY Homes Co. and developed with steel-concrete homes - value $24,000. These apparently were over-improvements and later were taken over by Rockefeller and sold for approximately $20,000 to $22,000. Later development in this area, principally during 1938 and first half of 1939 consisted of 15 stone and frame homes ranging in price from $12,500 to $18,500. At present 4 remain to be sold (still under construction). Construction of homes in this area is subject to approval of plans by Rockefeller architects. This area has all desirable influences; lots average 60 ft. x 160 ft. - present lot sale prices approximate $2,200 (including all improvements and subterranean utilities) from street to house paid for. Proximity to commercial district and transportation along Mayfield Rd., including schools and churches is a favorable factor. With the apparent interest directed towards development of this section, desirability should be further enhanced by individual owner construction and outside development interests with general improvement in economic conditions. At present, this is the most desirable new residential section in Cleveland Heights and should continue to hold this neighborhood esteem.
Executive - Professional ($10,000 up income) This area is the East Cleveland part of the exclusive Rockefeller - Forest Hills Subdivision, platted about 1928 into lots ranging from 60 ft. x 160 ft. to 90 ft. x 175 ft. Homes were first built along Glynn and Brewster costing from $22,500 to $45,000. Eighty-one of these houses were built during period from 1930-1931. Sale of same was halted by the depression (only three sold and the balance were put on a rental basis with such exclusive services as landscaping maintenance, police protection, private car transportation to stores and public transportation). Reappraisal of these properties, in 1936, placed them on the market within the bracket of $13,200 to $22,000 and sales were very satisfactory; mostly to tenants. Immediately following completion of this program, lots were placed on the market for sale for the first time but development was opened only one block at a time. Other construction to date, besides that of the Rockefeller interest, amounts to only three houses. At present the whole area is approximately 25% built-up (principally concentrated in the northern part along Glynn and Brewster and the north sides of Wyatt, Fenemore and Henley). This area has all desirable advantages and, with existing minimum building restrictions of $12,500, will continue to maintain its exclusive desirability. However, rapid construction in this area within the next 3 to 5 years is not anticipated due to the fact that Rockefeller interests are favoring the quicker development of the southern part of the allotment lying in Cleveland Heights due to transportation, stores and schools along Mayfield Rd. However, favored schools and their accessibility to this East Cleveland section of Forest Hills will hold all residents. According to the best informed opinion, present salable value of vacant lots in this area are bringing little, if any, more than the actual cost of installed utilities and improvements which are all subterranean, paid for, including those from street to house.
Business men & Professional South Decatur carline through area and North Decatur car line along railway in northern portion of area. Proximity to schools, churches, Agness Scott College (girls) and Decatur business section.
Professional - Executive This very desirable residential section has the highest restrictions in Euclid. Development was begun about 15 years ago but proceeded only gradually and did not gain momentum until within the last 5 years. Improvement restrictions on streets between Edgecliff Blvd. and Lake Shore Blvd. are set at a minimum cost of $8000 (lots 45 x 133 ft. to 180 ft.). Restrictions for lake frontage property on Edgecliff Blvd. are considerably higher at $12,000 (lots 50 to 70 ft. frontage). The Property Owners Committee in this area must pass on not only the type of construction but also the eligibility of the prospective homeowner. The beach privileges, club house and small park are maintained by direct levy on owners within this subdivision. The most expensive homes (approximately 10) are located on Edgecliff Blvd. and range in value from $15,000 to $18,000. The future for this 75% built up area, with its rigid restrictions and recently strong business building activity, will continue to maintain its high standard of desirability for many years. *Percentages noted for "occupancy" and "owner occupancy" are based on the fact that this area contains about 100 homes of which 6-8 are new constructions vacant - for sale and about 6 homes tenant-occupied.
Professional - Executive - Merchants This very desirable residential section has the second most rigid restrictions in Euclid. Improvements on streets between Lake Shore and Edgecliff Blvds. are limited to $6000 (lots 40-50 fit. x 135ft. depth) and on Edgecliff Blvd. lake frontage is restricted to $10,000 improvements (lots 50-60 ft. frontage). This area also has beach facilities exclusive to this neighborhood's residents, and restrictions here also require that not only plans of property must be passed on by Property Owners Committee but also the eligibility of the prospective homeowner in this section. Cost of maintaining this facility, including upkeep of park and beach, is paid by direct levy on individual property owners in this area. Future trend for this 65% built up area is very favorable, and predicted on its recent building activity and high restrictions, no detrimental influences will affect this area for many years. Its lower restriction on building costs than Utopia Beach #5 to the west (A-30) will, in all probability, cause more building activity here. No rentals have been available in this area for the past several months. *percentages used for "occupancy" and "Owner Occupancy" are based on the fact that area includes about 175 houses of which approximately 10 new constructions are unoccupied by owners or vacant for sale and about 10 houses are tenant-occupied.
Professional & Business men This allotment was laid 15 years ago; now 35% built up; practically all streets paved; all utilities; average lot front 40 ft.; level terrain; area consists of 95% single dwellings (6 rooms) and 5% cottages; very convenient to grade and high schools, churches and stores. This is a fairly new section; majority of homes are located south of Hilliard Dr.; homes along Laurel and Riverwood are a little more expensive than in rest of area. The area's eastern boundary adjoins the Metropolitan Park system. Free from any detrimental influences; local transportation is poor but this inadequacy is not considered detrimental inasmuch as all residents own automobiles. It is a fine quiet and clean community with pride of ownership very much in evidence. No heavily trafficked arteries. This area is accorded a good first grade rating in view of its rapid growth and present new construction activity.
Business men - White collar - Professional This area is located in the northeast end of Fairview Village; allotment laid out 12 years ago, and carefully restricted; now 35% built up; average lot front 50 feet; shrubbery and landscaping; all utilities installed. Bus transportation is only fair. The area lies immediately west of Rocky River and the Metropolitan Park; convenient to schools and stores; no detrimental influences affecting this area although better transportation facilities would enhance general desirability of area. Homes are set back at least 30 feet; uniform prices throughout entire area; 15 - 20 fine homes built here during past 12 months; new construction activity will probably continue at about same ratio. The area is accorded a good first grade rating.
Business men - white-collared This residential neighborhood was laid out 12-15 years ago; now 30% built up with 1 1/2 story homes ($5000-$6500) and 10% cottages; average lot front 40-50 feet; all utilities installed; homes set back 30-35 feet from lot line; good school facilities; bus transportation (on half-hour schedule during rush hours and then on the hour). A fine, restricted and fairly new residential section of Fairview, with fairly strong appeal to the small business men and white-collared worker who wants to live in the west-end; new construction is mostly east of Spencer; southern and eastern boundary close to Metropolitan Park. The outlying location and the transportation problem are slaes-resisting factors to some extent. This, naturally, affects the rental prices also - top rental here is $45.00 in homes worth around $6500. Another contributing retarding factor is the high school tax ($90.00 per year per property). Despite these apparent handicaps, the area, on the whole, shows a firm to upward trend; new construction will, no doubt, continue more or less at present ratio. No foreign infiltration. The area is accorded a fair first grade rating.
Business men - Professional & white-collared Area is about 18-20 years old. Streets are all paved; all utilities; well shaded streets. Lots average 45 ft. frontage; level terrain; build up 75-80%; well restricted; more expensive homes about $15,000 to $25,000 located on Greenway and Rocky River Drive. A clean, well maintained community. Very convenient to schools - one of the biggest drawing cards to area is the fact that school facilities are especially good; (George Washington School and Our Lady of Angels' highest rated schools in the Cleveland district. In addition, this area is close to St. Joseph's Academy for Girls; these factors are most important in selling property in this location. Very desirable section; good type of people; predominantly Catholic neighborhood. Ninety percent people coming to West Park prefer this location; good shopping facilities; close to Metropolitan Golf Course; borders on Metropolitan Park. Fairly heavy vehicular traffic on Rocky River Drive and Lorain Ave. but not considered detrimental to area. Reputed to be a thrifty class of people; foreclosure ratio low (less than any other section in city). Will remain desirable for many years and trend is definitely on the up grade.
Business men - Junior Executives - Professional This level area, lying immediately south of Lakewood, Ohio and abutting beautiful Metropolitan Park on western boundary, was platted in 1922; lots average 50' front and range from $1200-$2500. Well restricted throughout, this 60% built up area is made up of 6-8 room single residences. It has very good school, church and store facilities and transportation is available by bus and street car. Since 1935, this neighborhood has seen considerable new construction activity. Some 75-100 new homes were built here within the past 12 months. The greatest activity is in that section immediately north of Triskett Rd., including W. 151st, W. 152nd, Columbine and Rosemary; all of the development on Fernway, Columbine and Southward took place within the past 3 years. Much of this now construction activity is an overflow from Lakewood, Ohio which lies immediately north of this area and is pretty well built up, hence the trend is to the nearest first grade areas. St. Joseph's Academy (Catholic School for girls) is a beautifully wooded campus on the edge of Metropolitan Park and Rocky River Valley; this school is well-known for its educational standards. A fine, clean medium-priced residential neighborhood with no external detrimental influences. the present strong demand will continue for many years.
Professional This first grade residential area was laid out about 18 years ago and is located in the southwestern corner of Lakewood, Ohio. Restricted single dwelling construction with the exception of Woodward, Eldred, Atkins, Glenbury, Ogontz and the easterly portion of Delaware Avenues. Lots are 50 to 60 ft. wide excepting those where two-family constructions are permitted and these are 35 to 40 ft. front; all utilities installed; good transportation; convenient to schools, churches and neighborhood shopping districts. This is the only first grade residential area in the south and west end of the city; sales demand is good and the future trend will be upward; some ten new homes ($8000-$15,000) were constructed along Riverside, McKinley and Narragensett during the past twelve months; beautiful Rocky River and Metropolitan Park about: this area on the west boundary. The better and more expensive homes are located along Riverside Drive (western boundary).